Chapter 1: The myth of economic growth
Welcome back to the show. As you can see, I am joined by economist and Professor Richard Wolf to go over the latest developments. Well, Professor
Wolf, I wanted to begin with the state of the US empire in particular. What is going on with uh Trump's big mistake
that they seem to be the administration is scrambling over including and especially around the economy. Uh Scott
Besson told Axios that Trump is walking a tight rope of messaging of a strong economy amid high prices. Now uh due to
the fighting in Yemen and due to the closure and the continued closure of the straight form there is a global oil
supply buffer running scarily thin. This is according to Saudi Arabia's oil company Aramco, their CEO, who says that
until Hormos fully reopens and confidence returns, the crude reality is that pressure at both ends of the barrel will intensify while the squeeze on
crude is serious. Refined fuel prices have even risen more sharply. Now, uh, Professor Wolf, I wanted your thoughts
on this. This is what Scott Besson posted today. He said that the United States is showing what real economic growth looks like with just around 4% of
the world's population producing 26% of nominal GDP firms in the US are leading G20 in productivity. More than 60 of 100
most valuable companies are America Americans saying that the best days are ahead. But Professor Wolf, you've often said that these statistics can be
misleading and uh this data can be misleading. So what is the actual state of the US empire? Especially given now that the uh foundation or the uh root of
the petro dollar that is so valuable to the US's imperial dominance is now under literal fire with uh Saudi Arabia at war
with Yemen and Yemen striking back. Your thoughts on what's going on?
Chapter 2: Reality behind the statistics
Before he was made Treasury Secretary by Donald Trump, Mr. Bessent was reasonably well regarded
in financial circles for being a pretty good stock picker, a
pretty good analyst, not great, but pretty good.
Since becoming Treasury Secretary, he has distinguished himself
by saying what his boss wanted him to say to a degree and with an enthusiasm
that may make him secure in his post, but whatever reputation he had is gone,
is shot. uh and this latest election aiming nonsense
only finishes it.
any reasonable assessment, I mean any, of the American economy
would reach the same conclusion, which is while there are a few things
that point upward, that they're going well in some sense.
An enormous number, a larger number and a more important number are pointing downward to decline.
I really don't know where to start because everything he says is so lopsidedly tilted that you really stop
paying attention if if you're familiar with the statistics.
The United States's position in the world relative to the other industrialized economy
is smaller, lesser, weaker today than it has been any time since the end of the Second World War.
Now, it's true that president after president tells the American people, "Your best days are ahead of you." And
Mr. Trump goes further than the ones who preceded him in that direction. But the reason he's doing it is because this
sort of cheerleading is necessary because the opposite is the sad truth of it.
Look, the number of ways of indicating this are legion.
Up until 25 years ago, the US dollar was so powerful in the world economy, the 60
70 80% of the reserves held by central banks around the world were in dollars.
Today it is much much less.
Trade in the world was done in dollars overwhelmingly. Now it is much much less. I could go on.
At the end of World War II, the United States was a less unequal economy in the sense of the distribution of wealth and income from the richest to the poorest.
We were less unequal than the other industrialized economies.
Now we are more unequal than all of them. This is not an achievement.
We talk openly about the disappearing middle class. That's not an achievement.
The stock market is one of those numbers that Mr. Bessent likes to point to. So does Mr. Trump.
But here's the fact they always leave out when making their illusions to the bright stock market.
The 10% richest people in America own 80%
of the shares in the market. So if you're pointing to the market, what you're doing is pointing A to the people
Chapter 3: Housing and market crises
who are the richest, therefore B to the people who need it least, and you're talking about a good statistic that
bypasses the 90% of the people who don't own significant amounts of shares or in the case of the majority of Americans, no shares at all.
It is extraordinary what's going on. But I understand it. The election is looking
bad. Every poll I see indicates that the majority of the American people are
quite well aware, thank you, of what the condition of the economy is because they give Mr. Trump lower marks on economics
than almost anything else. They know that the inflation they face, the poor job prospects.
Last week, just to give you a couple more, just to give you the flavor, the Wall Street Journal today has an
article about how commercial real estate is in desperate trouble because rising
interest rates have made the projects they were thinking of undertaking.
Hotels, shopping malls, all of that off the charts, off the drawing boards.
can't afford them because the cost of borrowing money has gone up too far.
Mortgages for homes are now in excess of 7 and 12%.
Meaning that in the range of people from the age 19 to 29, 3% can afford to buy a home.
A majority of those who can't are living with their parents years beyond what people had to do
before. These and many more statistics are the carefully avoided references.
Mr. Bessent has a hard job. He should be called not the secretary of the treasury but the sup supreme cherrypicker.
Why? Because he's like a cherry picker picking the few statistics that point
upward a mass of downward pointing ones that are being
ignored. It's as if you went to a doctor and you wanted a checkup and the doctor
said, "Well, your temperature is good and your blood count uh platelets are
good." and then stopped and you had to say to him, "Are there any negatives?" Oh, yeah. A few. Not important really.
What are they? And then he trotted out and before he could finish his long list, you understood with a flash of
insight, you need a different doctor.
Chapter 4: Geopolitics and oil turmoil
And uh Professor Wolf, before I definitely want to get into the the bond yield and bond market crisis, but before
we get there, you know, part of this uh I guess evading of reality, evasion of
reality too is that there are two major wars going on that directly impact uh
global energy. And here is just some of the images coming out of Saudi Arabia after uh Yemen air strikes, Yemeni
strikes, missile strikes on uh uh oil facilities there which over the last 24- 48 hours have intensified. And then of
course there's a straight of horm situation where we just hear optimism all the time. Optimism, optimism. Yet uh there is still no uh progress in terms of how that situation will be resolved.
And as I put up earlier, even Saudi Arabia's top oil company is saying that the straight is not open. It is indeed
uh very much in turmoil. So how does this affect things? You know, the United States's entire financialized uh
economic empire is reliant upon energy, the petro dollar. Uh how how are things how is this affecting uh the state of the US empire now?
Well, I think on two levels. one that you cite, excuse me, one that you cite uh that has to do with this endless
lying. You know, the straight of Hormuz was never closed according to them. They added control. They were making sure
they were Mr. Trump never stops. It It is stunning. You know, all politicians
lie. We're kind of used to it. At least here in America, we are used to it. And then around election time, like now, the
hyping of the lies, that's impressive, too. But I must say, having been around a long time, the level of BS flying
around these days is truly is truly off the chart. It's about equal
to the billions of dollars being poured into this, excuse me, off-year election.
uh the money and the BS maybe have some deeper connection uh than I'm aware of.
Yeah, the oil markets are terribly royd.
I want to remind people that we now have a war on two fronts. The straight of
Hermuz is one, but the Red Sea and the Yemen Houthi movement is a second one.
Now, a while back, the United States at the request of Saudi Arabia undertook to bomb and destroy the Houthis.
Chapter 5: Failure of US military policy
And after some period of time, the United States announced two things.
Number one, destroyed them. Number two, we're leaving. As the dust settled and
in the period of time afterwards, it became clear that the second one their
leaving was true. But the first one that they defeated them, that was another lie. They hadn't done anything of the sort.
What proved it? the decision of the Houthis to control
the little straight at the bottom of the Red Sea and the Red Sea as a transport area, as a docking area for Saudi oil.
Okay, the lie. Now, the next lie. We're going to have Saudi Arabia
go and deal with the Yemenite Houthis in a way the United States couldn't.
Well, if you compare the American military capability to the Saudi Arabia military capability, you die laughing
because the latter is a fly and the other one is an elephant. What the elephant couldn't do, the fly is going to have some difficulty doing too.
Yes, they'll get help. Covert, overt.
But who wins that one? Unknown. I'm not going to predict. And I know that no one else's prediction is worth anything.
That's why the announcement yesterday that they were bombing the capital of Yemen is followed today by you're
showing us a clip of burning oil uh facilities in Riad, Saudi Arabia. So
yeah, I'm not surprised. We're hearing one thing after another. The president is desperate.
He is on the losing side of two wars at the same time. You're not supposed to
run for office losing one war. This genius, stable genius, is losing two.
The one in Ukraine and the one in the Middle East.
It is extraordinary that he should show his face, let alone
constantly make statements that even the media that carry them have to quarrel
with, have to question, have to throw doubt on.
And that le leads me to tell you what I think is the greatest significance here.
the world and the New York Times had an article a few days ago with a title something like the world of investment
is losing confidence in the United States. That's right. That's what's going on.
The American dominance that was so remarkable from 1945 to 2015,
right? 70 years of extraordinary dominance where the United States inherited all the empires that the
British, French, German, Spanish, Italian couldn't hold on to.
They all gave them up right after World War II and the United States rushed in
to take their place. And so we had the root of the world's majority, the people who
live in the former colonies of Asia, Africa, and Latin America.
And we lived, we in America an extraordinary life. The importance of all of these details,
Ukraine, Red Sea, straight of her moves, on and on and on. level of grotesque inequality.
An economy like ours that celebrates yesterday that with the rise in the value of
certain shares, Elon Musk once again becomes the world's number one and only trillionaire.
My god, what capitalism delivers to a world in crisis is hundreds of billions
of dollars to make the already richest man in the world richer. Still, this is not an economy to boast of.
The word that comes to mind for an economy doing what we are doing when we're in the midst of what we are living through, that word is shame.
Yeah. Well, uh, well, well played, Professor Wolf, and I'm glad you brought up the, uh, you know, earlier with the discrepancy and what we're being told in
Chapter 6: Global instability and protests
the mainstream media to what is actually happening in the Yemen front where it seems like that Saudi so-called backed
offensive is not so much an offensive anymore. Uh, they've been pushed back.
Uh, I think they're actually getting pretty bludgeoned uh, in the areas in which they try to retake close to the Babo Med Strait and um, that's that's
where the situation is. So it and that only adds on to this global pressure because Saudi Arabia is such a key hub
of global oil, the petro dollar. Uh it adds further pressure onto the Iran situation which I saw estimates Russ
Wolf up to $260 billion dollar this war has cost in total the United States uh
if we add in uh the military losses the equipment losses as well as the expenditures for the war and then the
straight of foros and the economic losses. So your reaction to this because uh the uh Trump administration often
boasts that the US is in a far better position under it. Not only under it but uh you know even through this war
against Iran that the US is now in a better not just economic position but is back in total. How do you react to that
in you know given these numbers that I just put out? just more BS, endless
flowing. Say whatever the situation suggests to advantage yourself. The
elections are coming. They're less than a month away.
It's looking real bad for the president, real bad for the Republican party that
they can't do anything about it. This nonsense. I may invade Iran after the
elections. If he could invade Iran, there'd be no point in waiting till after the elections. All that you're
doing is giving there more time for Iran and its allies, which include the these
important countries called Russia and China.
more time to amass the drones and the missiles that are going to make any invasion by the United States an a
colossal mistake on top of the mistake already made.
Look, they tried to control and dominate Iran with a war in June of 2025,
lasted 12 days because the ability of the Iranians to strike back had not been understood or planned for.
In February of this year, even though the president told us last year that we've annihilated their nuclear, we have
nothing to worry. It's all taken care of. Those are virtual quotes.
In February of this year, barely a half year later, we have to attack again.
It's we're told. And guess why? To prevent them from having a nuclear I thought we did that last year. But
that's cuz he lies. And the lies are now so normal, so routine, so frequent that
we're in that in the case of that famous story of the the boy who cried wolf. You keep crying and there is no wolf and you
keep yelling and there no wolf. Then a wolf once comes, you yell again, but no one believes you because you've lied too often.
Mr. Trump never heard that story or he didn't get it when it was told to him.
So no, I don't think very much is changing at all. That's why the price of gas stays up. That's why the price of
diesel oil has w has gone up by the way more than
gasoline for our car. Which means every truck that works on diesel and that's most of them and every farm equipment
tractor and so on which works on diesel are costing the farmers more squeezing their ability to to make a living.
Our affordability crisis is worse than it was when people started talking about it half a year ago.
So no, the economy is in terrible shape.
The wars are not going well. And let me say something because Americans don't pay attention as much as we should to what goes on in other countries.
Chapter 7: The decline of imperialism
France as a nation is closed down, as I am speaking to you. The city of Paris has many of its streets impassible.
There are areas into which the police dare not go because the students, high
school and college are organized to protest. And here's what they're protesting.
Their schools, their universities don't have the teachers they're supposed to have. They don't have the toilet
paper they're supposed to have. They do have a population of rats that they're
not supposed to have. Why? Because the government is saving money by not spending on the people's education. And
why is that? So they can send money to help the Ukrainians.
Well, the French have said, "No, no, you're the French government. Your first responsibility is to the French people
who pay your taxes, pay your salaries, and are the people you are supposed to constitutionally
serve. You're not serving us by starving our schools, therefore inhibiting the
future of our young people and of our country's economy. in order to help the Ukrainians.
Are you crazy?
And by the way, in Germany, the last three elections, the big success is the alternative for Deutselan, a right-wing
political party who doesn't want to send German money to the Ukraine anymore.
Long ago, Ukraine couldn't have fought with Russia. That's an unfair fight. The Russians are much bigger.
What sustains the Ukraine, a war to the last Ukrainian, is our money and weapons
that used to come from the United States and Europe now mostly comes from Europe.
And the anger there should give us all a warning.
It led the leading left-wing politician in France, Jean Luke Melon, the head of
the left-wing block in the National Assembly, which is the largest block in
that body, larger than that of President Mron and larger than that of Le Pen, the
rightwing. And Mr. Melon Shaw said yesterday that if the government needs money to
maintain the schools, cancel 18%, that was his proposal, of the national debt.
Go to those big banks and corporations and rich people, the ones who own most
of the France national debt, and tell them they're not going to get interest.
They're not going to get the money back because there's a higher priority.
They are small in number and the people who need an education is the entirety of the French country. You know what that
is doing? Every banker, whatever else they tell you, is meeting right now in
emergency because the entire financial system, which rests on government debt,
just got plunged into yet another sign that our economic
system is not what Mr. Bent and Trump are telling us. It's literally the opposite.
Yeah. Well, Professor Wolf, I think uh those are great points and I'm glad you brought up the uh global impact of uh
the decline of the US empire and these wars that it is engaging in and how
we're seeing across the world uh just how squeezed uh especially the ordinary person is becoming. And I guess my
question to you is this. The um you know the major cost of just this one war
alone, the the war on Iran that began on February 28th, you know, is some estimate is actually in the trillions if you look at the overall economic costs
over time, future projections. But uh maybe you can talk about how this
parallel uh process that you that you have pointed out uh the economic calamity of the empire as a whole its
effect on everywhere including the west as we're seeing in France uh how that affects ordinary people so severely. But
also there's now it's going in parallel the uh the decline of living standards the pressure that ordinary people are facing. We're seeing it with diesel.
we're seeing in the bond market crisis.
We're seeing it with uh the phenomenon of the rich getting richer off of all of this while ordinary people get a lot
poor. That is also moving in parallel with the United States and the West as a whole finding themselves a lot less
trustworthy and ultimately a lot less influential uh on the affairs of the planet. How do these two things go together?
Well, let me pick up from what we were talking about the decline of the American Empire
Chapter 8: Colonial fantasies in decline
because it has consequences and effects and once you see them it'll help clarify
where we are. So notice something bizarre about the United States and
Europe in these years. two the two areas bizarre in the following way.
The United States is in less horrible economic condition than the Europeans. A fact that the United States people like
Trump and Besson repeat over and over again. We're not better off than they are. Uh in the same way with China,
China is much more economically growing and growing fast than any country in
Europe or than the United States. If you wanted to measure us as our empire
declines, I got news for you. The global reach and the global power of
China is bigger each day. We are declining. they are rising. That ought
to be an issue. It's not that they are aggressive towards the United States.
They don't need to be. They are growing very well for the last 35 years without
expansion. Let me do that again. Without expansion.
The Chinese have one military base outside their country. The United States, 750.
There's no comparison here.
United States troops are all over the world in in 20, 30, 40 countries.
Where are Chinese troops? In China.
This is an important you know basic understanding. It's never discussed here which is why it's not in your head. And
now let me show you some other consequences.
You know the Europeans and the American leaders they know what I'm saying. They know that the wealth of those countries
in Europe and here was crucially dependent on colonialism.
It's obvious in the case of France or Germany or Britain. Britain is a little
cold wet island off the mainland of Europe. But when it could take over
India, a country vastly richer, vastly
larger, vastly more populous with more resources than anything Britain ever had.
So they took over India and they moved the wealth to Britain. Belgian took the wealth of the Congo, the richest area in
Africa, and brought it to the little country in the northwest of Europe.
that would be a little poor country if it weren't for their colonial time.
And then when the colonial powers above all France, Britain, Germany, Russia
culminated in killing each other in World Wars one and two because that's what those wars were about, the competition of the empires.
They all destroyed each other with one exception, the US.
Because air power hadn't been developed yet, the Atlantic and Pacific oceans protected us.
In World War II, 27 million Russians died in World War II. 400,000
Americans died. Elephant fly.
All deaths are horrible. All wars terrible, but you cannot compare.
So out of World War II, the destruction of all the old empires and the Americans
inherited our prosperity of the last 70 years is the prosperity
of people who inherit their wealth. They don't make it, they inherit it. And
therein lies then a desperation because we know and the Europeans do
that we can't quite recover those colonies. They won't let us. So we have
and I mean this seriously fantasies of a renewed colonialism.
The Europeans are hysterical to have a war with Russia. Why?
Russia doesn't have military bases around the world.
Russia has said nothing about wanting to expand into Europe. Why would the European countries, the Russians are
taking years to fight a war with one little corner of Europe? They're going to undertake colonializing Europe.
Stupid. Why? Why would you come up with that? Ah, Russia is the biggest country by
geography in the world. The vast Asian part of Russia and a good bit of its European part are not well explored.
They no doubt have every kind of rare earth and other valuable oil and minerals below that. Russia's already
the largest producer of oil in the world in on many re levels etc.
The fantasy of the Europeans is to fight a war with Russia, to somehow defeat Russia and then in the words of Kaak
Kalis, the foreign minister of the European Union, carve up Russia into little countries and each of us in the
West can have one as a colony and to show that we can outdo the Europeans in colonialist fantasy.
Mr. Trump, get ready, wants to take back the Panama Canal. He wants to grab
Greenland. He wants to make Canada the 51st state. You get the picture?
Colonial fantasies so we can be rich again.
He attacks the whole world with his tariffs. This is craziness,
folks. It's the sign of an economy that's desperate to recover what isn't available.
To try to be a colonial power today, is not to understand that the 17th, 18th,
and 19th century, the era of colonialism, when the Europeans created the world economy, brought us all
together. A great achievement of capitalism.
We have to face the fact that the world economy they created was one ugly
lopsided production wealth in Western Europe, North America and Japan. Poverty everywhere else. Wow.
Not a good job. Good that you made a world economy terrible.
The unjust, imbalanced, unequal. weird way you went about doing it and that's
okay because that's behind us. We are living in the anti-colonial
period of a human history when the whole world wants nothing to do with one country doing that to another. If you
try now to do that, you're going to get weird results. I'll give you an example.
The little country of Israel is interested in becoming greater Israel by taking Gaza, West Bank, Southern Lebanon, and so on. And you know what?
That results in genocide.
It's time to understand that yeah, we are all in a shrinking empire and that
is going to cost all of us. But we are living in an America in which the rich and the powerful, they want to keep all
that colonialism got them. They don't want to give any of it up. And so as the empire goes down and they hold on to
theirs, we the rest of us in this country have to give up more and more.
That's why you have the richest man in the world, Elon Musk, brandishing a chain store in last year, cutting the
government jobs of hundreds of thousands of Americans, delivering services to our people. That's why last week, Vice
President Vance announced proudly that they had removed 750,000
families from the Obamacare program so they wouldn't have to spend money on the health care of these people.
The French people are in the streets saying no more of that. And the world
watches to see whether and when and how
other people the French are always first at this sort of thing. That's why we are
all interested in and learn about the French Revolution back in 1789.
But it's coming here. such things do when the problems afflicting them are so similar to those afflicting us.
Chapter 9: The bond market crisis
Yeah. Well, uh this point that you made about the uh uh you know United States Empire receding
and the colonial ambitions of the US, of Europe and of Israel uh how they are getting weird results. I think one of
those weird results is what you mentioned which is that the world is indeed shifting away very very violently
actually away from all three of these entities very much interlocked ideologically and uh of course economically.
How do you see this affecting the global financial system? I said I wanted to get into this uh everyone's talking about
the bond market, the yields, the uh you know, you mentioned the increasing rates uh in mortgages and investment and all
of this. How does this part of it uh relate to this shift in the world that
we're seeing? and how how ultimately we're hearing all kinds of talk about the dollar being much stronger now that
uh the effects of the Iran war have been mitigated but uh there might be something bigger and broader happening
that uh perhaps the mainstream economists and think tanks and whatnot are missing.
Yeah, I think that uh Mr. percent.
He may have said that. I can't remember whether he said it or somebody else did.
This business about the dollar. The dollar is less of a factor in world trade today than it has been at at any
time since World War II. I mean, it's just just silly. The line of development is unambiguous. It's not bouncing up and down. It's going down.
It It's just remarkable to me what is said. All right, here's here's the story.
Around the world, when rich people or big corporations
have money, wealth, and they're trying to hold on to it, I like to remind the
world, you can divide us into two groups of people. Those who are f focused on
making a living, who don't have any wealth to speak of, and those who do have it. Because the
difference is those who have it are mostly concerned with how to keep it.
Whereas the rest of us are concerned about wealth only in the idea maybe there's some way we could get it. you
know, some clever way like buying a lottery ticket or something like that.
And the safest way to hold wealth for rich people, corporations, and so on is the debt of a government. Why?
Because if you have money and you just sit on the money, it's useless to you.
And if prices are going up, inflation is incur occurring as it is now. Well, then the value of that money shrinks. As prices go up, you're sitting on money.
What you can buy with that money shrinks as the price of items go up. So people who have a lot of money don't like to keep it in the form of money.
Well, what can they do with it? They can lend it. There are markets where you lend. They're called capital markets.
You're lending your money to others. And they're called capital markets because the major borrowers are people who have
some project, some investment they want to make and they want to borrow the money, some or all of it, to make the
investment. For example, every shopping mall you've ever seen was
built by somebody who borrowed the money to pay for having it built to pay the
workers and to buy the steel and the cement and all the rest of it. Every hotel
is bought is constructed with borrowed money. The banks collect all the money
people have, give them some piece of it, interest for it, and turn around and lend it.
But suppose you're worried worried about
the safety of lending to Joe Blow or to Donald Trump or anybody else because
you're not sure they know what they're doing. You're not sure that their project will succeed and you're terribly
afraid that if they don't succeed, they will declare bankruptcy. We didn't make it. And one of the things you get when
you go into bankruptcy is you get some or all of your debts erased.
Whoa. That changes everything for rich people. They don't want to lend to
anybody who might not pay them interest, might not pay them back the principle that they lend.
And that has meant over the years that many people prefer to lend to a
government rather than a hotel builder or a shopping mall builder or any
builder or any major project. Right now, billions are being lent
to produce AI facilities, data centers, and all of that. But that's very risky.
So people want to lend to the government and the government particularly borrows.
United States is the biggest debtor country in the world. We owe $40 trillion. Nobody else.
We are it. We owe an enormous amount of money.
People have been willing to lend to the United States government because it is sure to pay back. They think they hope.
In any case, it's in a better place to pay back than a private builder might be. First of all, the government has to
publish lots of data about its own finances. Many companies don't have to do that. Borrowers, they have to show
the bank, but who knows whether you can rely on them telling the truth. A crook is caught every day.
So lending to the government has been attractive until now.
Why now? Because governments have borrowed too much. It's the oldest
problem of human history. They borrow so much that potential lenders
are beginning to scratch their chins, their heads, and other parts of their body wondering to themselves, is it safe to do this?
Chapter 10: The myth of infinite printing
And the answer is as the debt goes higher and higher, say in the United States,
they're beginning to say, "We're not willing, as we once were, to lend to you as much as you want."
And the first sign of it is suddenly more and more people are saying I will lend to you America and United States,
but because you're a big deadbeat borrower, you're going to have to pay me
more interest to lend to you. And so we read that the long-term borrowing debt
of the United States is costing the government more and more interest.
And in case people are wondering what's this got to do with me, here's the answer, Mary and John. Where do you
think the interest comes from that governments pay to the lenders? Your
taxes and my taxes. We send those tax when we drink a a can of beer or we fill
our car with gasoline or we pay our April 15th income tax. Those taxes go to
a government that takes now a huge chunk of that and does not use it to provide any service to the United States whatsoever.
It just takes that money and delivers it to the rich people, corporations, and a
few foreign governments who are the major creditors of the United States.
Look, friends.
This situation is killing us. It's kill mortgages are now 7 and a2%. You cannot
afford a home. Most Americans can't anymore. And there's no end of that in sight. Yeah.
Hotel projects half constructed are stopping because they won't borrow any more money to finish the project because
they have to pay interest rates that make it unprofitable, which is why they built it in the first place. It it
things are falling apart around us. The gas costs more. Everything we buy in a supermarket costs more because it comes
by a truck and the truck uses diesel oil and diesel oil went up even more than
gasoline over the last year or two. So we're getting it from all sides and then
Vice President Vance cancels the medical insurance for 750,000 American family. It's coming at us from all sides.
Meanwhile, the stock market is doing very well. It is. That's why Mr. Trump and Mr. Percent point at it.
But the statistic they never add to their remarks is the following. The
richest 10% of Americans own 80% of the shares.
In other words, those are the people who can hold on the longest.
We are the ones who have to pay the price of a declining empire. And because
we don't sit down with the rest of the world to work out the decline of our
empire, because we think we can get more empire, we can rename the straight of
Hormuz to be the straight of Ivanka Trump or whatever the orange man has in mind.
We are wasting wild resources, hundreds of billions of dollars in Ukraine, now
in the Middle East and supporting Israel and so forth and so on.
That's money that could have and should have been used to work out a livable planet.
Why are we tilting everything against China?
This is not a one. What's that going to have? A war.
China has four times or five times the population of the United States.
It's the alliance between Russia and China makes them more militarily powerful than we are by a lot.
Are we going to continue to make believe that isn't true? That's what we're doing now.
We're fighting a war thousands of miles away over the straight of Hermuz before the
United States thinking it could hold on to its control of the world initiated a
war against Iran in June of last year and then again in
February of this year. Before that, the straight of her moves was open.
Mr. Trump is going to say, "I opened Austral.
The world is looking at this and saying, "What do we need this clown for?" If he weren't around to have attacked
Iran, this whole issue, the straight wouldn't have been closed. The oil would have continued to flow. The price of
gasoline would The things Mr. Trump wants now he needs to fight for because
he did that which caused the problem.
To reelect people like this is the equivalent of shooting yourself in the foot.
My final question to you, Professor Wolf, given all uh that you just said there is there's this hubris that uh
I've identified around especially this notion that you just laid out in terms of impact on the dollar, the impact on
ordinary people, the way that money is spent. There's a lot of people who say, "Well, the United States can just print money for whatever it wants, however it
wants." And this makes it almost insulated from not just economic crisis, but also the notion that any war like
the Iran war could bankrupt uh the United States or could have a long-standing fiscal and economic impact
on the United States economy. What do you say to this? Because this is something that always bothers me. I hear it all the time. Well, the United States is just going to keep printing money.
Taxes don't matter. Just print print.
How do you uh address this uh you know, this statement that I've heard from in particular mainstream even mainstream
economists, but you know, even those who are very critical of of what's going on right now.
No, I'm glad I hear it also, Danny. So, I'm glad I'm glad you bring it up. Let's begin this way.
Chapter 11: Accepting a new reality
The statement is roughly true of the 70 years from 1945 to say 2015.
Uh for that period of time, the United States could print dollars
and the world was so hungry for the dollar either to get it and keep it as a reserve in their central bank or for
rich people in other countries who wanted to hold a portion of their wealth not in their own country's currency
because that wasn't so safe, but to keep some of it in American currency. See,
yeah. The American government could borrow and everybody would lend because it was the safest securest
company or government in this case to lend to. So for 70 years, the dominant
position of the United States, the inheritor of all the empires when they
were no longer able to continue running their empires
for a while. You could do what that saying says. The mistake those people
are making is the same thing that we are talking about this entire hour. The
empire is over. It's not growing. It's not peaking. It's declining.
And so everything that we thought we had is step by step. not in a straight line,
not all at the same rate, but it's declining.
Let me give you an example from military because we haven't talked about that.
In 1975, we lost the war in Vietnam. We lost. We went 10,000 miles away, as far
away as you can get from the United States. before you've gone so far you're coming around the other side of the planet.
We fought a war some years long. Half a million American soldiers were sent
there. Our enemy was what? The Communist Party of North Vietnam.
At that time, Vietnam was one of the poorest countries in the world. And the
United States was the global inheritor of had the whole world as its empire,
richest, most powerful, biggest military. And we lost.
You know how we know we lost? Because the government of Vietnam today is the Communist Party of North Vietnam. That was the people we fought.
They won. We lost. All those American troops are gone. The United States has
nothing from that war except all the dead, all the wounded, all those who
committed suicide and the tens of billions of dollars lost.
Little bit later, we had another war in Afghanistan. The enemy then were the Taliban. You know who runs Afghanistan
today? The Taliban. That's another clue who won and who lost.
We just left Iraq finally after many, many years.
And Iraq is now mostly a good ally of Iran. We didn't win.
And now Iran. And Iran is different because unlike the Vietnamese, they won by outlasting the American military.
The Taliban won by outlasting.
They couldn't fight back. They didn't have an air force. They didn't have a significant navy.
But the Iranians, the Iranians are something new.
We're probably losing.
But the Iranians hit back. They have drones. They have missiles.
Lots of them. And they're buried in places where the Americans can't get them. Tried twice, failed twice.
Wow.
You notice something? You lost. You lost. You lost. And now you're losing
more dangerously because look at the damage Iran has done. Flatten the American military bases in four or five countries in the Gulf area.
Wow.
But here in America, no one explains, and I'm not making this up, and I'm not
using any secret data. This is all public information.
It's everywhere, friends. And nobody nobody bad did this to us.
American companies moved production out of the United States to China over the last 40 years
because it was profitable to do so. No one held a gun to their hand to their heads. The American government didn't
make them go. The American worker didn't make them go. Profit which they were already making, they
wanted more. and going to China got them lower wages and a government eager to
bring US technology and all that for them to learn and for them to use which
is what they've done just like early America used European resources and
skills and technology that's what countries that come later do
we ought to be aware of our decline. Not because, you know, we should be
shamefaced about it. Decline has happened to every empire in human history. The Greek, the Roman, the
Ottoman, the the Persian, the you name it. We have nothing to be You don't see Greek people walking around shamefaced because their empire declined.
It's not a question of stopping it. You can't do that. Nobody can.
The question is how you do it. Will you gracefully decline?
Make that a shared sacrifice. Bring the country together to go through this phase
in a solidaristic way, in a community way rather than being at each other's throats.
And that means not just internally but with the rest of the world. The Chinese
want a chance to grow and be rich to do for themselves exactly what Americans
did. Are we going to be the enemy of that? If you're the enemy of that kind of progress for a country four times
larger than you, then you're being stupid.
Professor Wolf, it was a great program today. I want to make sure everybody knows that uh your uh website, Democracy
at Work, is in the video description, so everyone uh should check that out. As well as the YouTube channel for
Democracy at Work. I want to thank everybody who viewed today. Thanks for the super chats near far the far world.
I appreciate it. Um thank you so much, Kirk, for your super chat. And thanks to all the moderators who are in the chat today. Thanks for everyone who was
watching uh overall. Hit the like button before you go. Professor Wolf, any final words before we head out of here?
No, it's just I want all you know you you kindly invite me and I'm I'm very glad to be here, but I want to give some
kudos to you for doing what you do and doing it regularly and consistently. The country needs this kind of conversation
more than ever before and people like you that provide it uh are doing a very
very important public service and I just want you and the listeners and viewers uh to to think about that for a moment.
Really appreciate that, Professor Wolf.
I can't wait to have you back on again very soon. We'll head out together.
Everybody hit the like button before you go. all the places to support this channel in the description below, as well as the places to check out all of Professor Wolf's work. All right, until
tomorrow, 2:00 p.m. Eastern time, I'll be back. I'll announce who's coming on then. Bye-bye.
￼

