

######## rwt_1 (Glenn Diesen, March 2026) — Wolff turns only
My pleasure, Glenn. Glad to speak with you.

The War Against Iran: A Dangerous Gamble

Well, I hesitate in the middle of the war to speak as though I know what it’s going to do. We’re all tempted to do that. I understand that the people I speak with want to know what’s going to happen. For all the usual reasons, I don’t think we can do that. And let me tell you why and then I’ll answer your question.

It seems to me that everything at this point depends on how much bombing and missing and all the rest that the Iranian people can tolerate. I mean, everything hangs on that. If the support for the government’s resistance is solid and cannot be disturbed, no matter how many bombs they throw into that country, which is certainly a possibility, then I agree with you.

Then I think all that’s left for us to think about is how far the desperation of the United States will take it, because it can’t tolerate a defeat. And in this way, I think it’s really quite similar to the almost by now absurd hysteria of the Europeans vis-à-vis Russia. Not because they have a chance to defeat Russia — they don’t — but because the thought of a defeat of Europe by Russia frightens them to such a point.

By them, I mean the leaders of the countries. Their careers would be over, their political life, history would be kind of erased. The whole world would see the kind of slavish subordination Europe accepted after World War II. Perhaps it had no choice, but in any case, it accepted it. And this is the end of that process — the United States throwing them under the bus because it has its own problems.

How Far Will the United States Go?

So then the question becomes: how far will the United States go? And that becomes the question. How far will the American people, on the one hand, and the American employer class — and I choose my language carefully — how far will it let Mr. Trump go?

And that will depend not very much on what happens in Iran or even in the Gulf. That is going to be determined by the domestic, inside the United States, consequences of a prolonged war.

And if I were Mr. Trump, I would be extraordinarily worried that this time may be his last time. And the reason for that is to quote a leading business communications: “This war may take us over a fiscal cliff.” That’s a quotation. And let me do the arithmetic that lies behind that, because I believe that’s correct.

The Fiscal Cliff: America’s Debt Crisis

Mr. Trump inherited in his second term a position of the United States as the largest debtor country in the world, which it has been for some time. That is not all Mr. Trump’s fault. That’s why I use the word inherited. I mean, he contributed in his first presidency to doing it. But he’s not alone. The Democrats did it earlier, Republicans did it.

The United States long ago decided politically it could never fight the many wars it kept going by taxing the population. That would produce a revolt here. So it has to be borrowed. You have to borrow the money for the wars, and you could do it. You had a world that put its money in the United States, happy to lend to the US Government, considered the safest possible way to hold your wealth. And it paid interest. And if the dollar appreciated, well, then you made even more money, which it often did.

All of that is now over. Mr. Trump inherited deficits exceeding a trillion dollars a year. He inherited the recent decline of the credit rating of the United States from AAA to AA by all three of the major credit agencies — Moody’s, Standard and Poor’s, and Fitch — all of them, not at the same time, but in a short period of time, dropped the credit rating because the United States is too deep into debt.

The Collapse of Trump’s Revenue Strategy

And Mr.

Trump promised as he ran that he would do it. And one of the reasons he adopted his tariff program was that it might generate big money into the government so that at least the deficits would be reduced.

Okay, all of that has been blown apart. Number one, in order to counter the declining empire problem, you got all this noise about retaking the Panama Canal, taking Greenland, converting Canada into the 51st state, and so forth. And with all of that grandiosity and with the quite determined resistance of all of those entities — they didn’t want this, they’re not for sale, and all the rest — he went to the Congress about a month and a half ago, first quietly, then publicly demanding an increase in the defense — although it’s now called the War Department — budget, from the current $900 billion to $1.5 trillion.

Excuse me for the arithmetic, but it’s needed for the argument to be made. That’s an increase in one year’s budget of $600 billion on a base of $900 billion. In other words, a two-thirds increase in one year of the Defense Department budget, when we spend more on that than the next eight countries combined spend on that, and that includes Russia and China.

So this is a wild announcement of increased spending, but we’re not done. Then he goes to war against Iran and has now asked for an additional $200 billion to fight the war. Okay, so now we’re increasing $800 billion.

The Tariff Collapse and Borrowing Crisis

The only increase in revenue to deal with that were the tariffs. And the Supreme Court has ruled that those were illegal and unconstitutional. And the companies that paid them — importing companies — have now gone to court and are demanding a refund of that money. And I don’t see how that can be refused. If you’re taxed and the tax is illegal, it has to be returned to them.

So there’s no increase in revenue and an $800 billion increase in military outlays. This is impossible. What this means is that the government will go into the credit markets and try to borrow an additional $800 billion on top of what it was already facing as a deficit. And it will do that at a time when its credit rating is lower than it has been for most of the last century.

Here’s what I expect. It will not be easy to borrow, and for sure it will be necessary — unless something new happens — to pay higher interest rates if you’re going to be able to borrow.

Interest Rates, Stagflation, and Political Desperation

So how interesting, with this logic, that yesterday Axios and other important news agencies of the business world announced that the people who keep track of these things went in the last two days from a zero probability that interest rates would be raised by the Federal Reserve to about 26 to 27% odds that we will have increases this year — not the decreases that the stock market had priced in over the previous six months.

If you remember, Mr. Trump has been trying to get rid of his own appointee, Mr. Powell, at the Federal Reserve, in order to get lower interest rates sooner. At this point, no one is thinking you could possibly lower interest rates now. Everyone in this country is worried that what’s going on in the Middle East will mean oil and gas prices will stay elevated and that that will work its way through the economy and give us another inflationary bout, and therefore interest rates cannot be lowered.

That puts the United States in an impossible situation. We have a renewal in the debate on Wall Street about the likelihood of stagflation — a recession and inflation at the same time, which we call stagflation — which we’ve had before and which we can have again.

Trump’s Political Crisis and Electoral Interference

And an election in November in which at this point Mr. Trump and his people have only two options: interfere in the election or lose. Those are their options. And given who these people are and how they behave, you’re going to see a lot of interference in the election as much as they can get away with, starting with the so-called SAVE Act.

The newspapers yesterday were full of two ironies that speak to this. Number one, that in the Florida state election for the state legislature of Florida, which was held yesterday, Mr. Trump — who was in Florida during the day — chose to use a mail-in ballot to cast his vote. He has stimulated a bill in Congress that would end mail-in ballots, using the argument that they are illegitimate somehow.

Even more important, the election for the state assembly in the district that includes Mar-a-Lago — that’s where Mr. Trump voted — for the first time in many years, voted for a Democrat and not for the candidate of the Republicans who had been endorsed by Mr. Trump. So he was defeated right in his own neighborhood. These are all terrible signs for his lack of popularity and the desperate situation they are in.

The Unresolved Crises Behind the War

Meanwhile, last point: the two issues that were supposed to be pushed off the headlines by this war in Iran — namely the Epstein scandal, which is far from over, and the economic problems of a vast majority of the American people — those remain unresolved, unsolved, worsening literally by the day.

And how long he can distract from that with the war, I don’t know. But I think he is seeing this as his only hope. He got a little bit of a boost by snatching Mr. Maduro out of his bed at night in Venezuela and hoped somehow Iran, as you put it, could be a parallel piece of political theater. The bottom line is it’s not working at this point at all.

But again, everything depends on the solidarity of the Iranian people behind their government. And I can’t speak to that. It’s not anything I know in any direct way.

Assumptions, Uncertainties, and the Stakes of Failure

All the rest of the world is feeling it. And the rest of the world is not only feeling it, but is taking steps that are not reversible. People don’t understand that when you are faced with a sudden spike in the price of oil and gas, for example, and in derivative prices like fertilizer, plastics and other things, you’re going to have adjustments that do not get readjusted back to the position before when the prices come down again.

In other words, there are people that are going to be switching to solar energy or hydro energy or other kinds of energy that are never going to go back to buying oil, especially when they’re squeezed like they are now. I mean, I don’t know of anyone who’s done a study how much damage has been done in the Gulf states that they will now use their accumulated dollar holding of US Treasuries, liquidate them, in order to repair and replace the facilities that the Iranians have knocked out. I don’t know how much that is, but my guess is that the Gulf states are going to be much less of a buyer of American debt than they have been in the past as a result.

How does that figure in? And here’s some even bigger ones. If I have this right, the most extreme problems are going to come in Asia, which relied on Middle Eastern oil. Europe and Asia relied on Middle Eastern oil. The Europeans are feeling the squeeze already. The Asians are feeling it already. I believe it’s the Philippines that has already now put limits on the amount of gasoline you can get into your vehicle each time you stop at a gas station. In other words, they’re beginning to control the supply. Other countries are forbidding export of certain kinds of either oil or derivatives from oil.

So if you have a closing up of the fossil fuel business, you might have the best ecological outcome for reasons having nothing to do with ecology, because everybody is either unable to get the oil or does not want to stay in the vulnerable position waiting to see how wars thousands of miles away work themselves out. And then when you remember that the United States, as you rightly say, has been antagonistic toward Iran and may now become so against some of the Gulf states, depending on how they go in this situation, it’s very, very dangerous.

Russia, China, and the Iran Equation

Let me introduce a couple more. Iran has an immense long border with Russia. On one level, I don’t want to over exaggerate this, but it would be naive not to think it doesn’t matter what their capacity is to produce missiles or drones, because Russia can supply them with all the missiles and drones they could possibly need or want indefinitely. And one of the reasons Russia can do it is because China has a big long border with Russia. And so moving these things from the manufacturing powerhouse that is China through Russia to Iran, the mechanisms for that are already in place. The trade that runs like that has already occurred.

So the United States has to wonder not just about the capacity of Iran, but of the willingness of Russia and China to support Iran. It’s a little bit like Russia had to calculate what is the power that we face against Ukraine, once it became clear that the United States and Western Europe was going to help Ukraine with missiles and drones and everything else.

In order to answer that question, you have to wonder what’s going through the mentality of Russian and Chinese leaders as they confront this. And my fear is that what Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov said yesterday — he was quoted as saying lines to the effect that “this is the beginning of World War Three” — okay, put aside for a moment the shock value of that. And there are others who have been saying that, too. But here is one of the people closest to Mr. Putin for many, many years saying that in the minds of the planners and thinkers there, we’re not dealing with a localized event, we are dealing with a global event.

And if it’s global, and if it’s even vaguely World War 3, then Russia and China cannot then logically step back and say that Iran will have to rely on its own capacity to produce weapons. That’s not going to happen. The stakes are much too high to make that assumption. And if you don’t make that assumption, then where are you? The Iranians using their own missiles and drones, or the limitless supply that will be available to them, if it isn’t already — they can keep the Strait of Hormuz closed forever. They can keep lobbing the drones and missiles onto the Gulf states, not just the American bases there, but the desalination plants, the electric plants, the energy facilities, and on and on. Who’s going to stop them?

The Iron Dome hasn’t saved Israel from all kinds of damage done by the missiles from Iran, and the United States can’t either. That’s why you get the crazy proposals from the likes of Lindsey Graham and other marginal characters here in the United States. They’re advising Mr. Trump to use nuclear weapons either to destroy Iran literally, or else — the best one I heard last night was to widen the Strait of Hormuz by dropping nuclear weapons into that area. I understand this is all crazy stuff, but it’s crazy stuff that’s becoming part of the discourse.

Trump’s Political Survival and the Domestic Crisis

Because if John Mearsheimer is correct — and I know you have him as a guest and you know him well — then he has said from the beginning there is no way out. Mr. Trump has no way out. And the implication of what Mearsheimer has said all along is: don’t do this, because you won’t have a way out. And Mr. Trump did it anyway. And so now we are living with what it means if he has no way out.

But I’m telling you again, and I would stress it, he will disappear politically anyway when the internal fiscal disaster hits here. If he can’t prevent the election, if he can’t control the election, and if he is defeated — which he will be if he doesn’t prevent it at this point, no question — then the question becomes whether he will go or not. And that’s where we are. Then the issue becomes the American military establishment. Where will they go? Because you will have reached a point in which the country is split 60-40, and the only conceivable control mechanism becomes the military.

And then, who knows, because he is busily creating his own military. To give you an example, the refusal of the Congress to fund ICE — the private army that they created to deport immigrants — they have now brought them into all the airports here in the United States, because the budgeting meant that the people who process you at the airport are on strike. Effectively, they’re not working because they haven’t been paid, because they can’t resolve it. The Democrats won’t let it go through. So Trump has decided to use ICE at all the airports.

That’s an expansion. The private army is now committed to deporting all the bad criminal immigrants, and now they’re also in charge of security at all airports. They’re becoming an alternative military police apparatus, and they will be called in. And you can be very sure that the rest of the military are watching this with great concern, because they are not reliable for Mr. Trump, and he has to deal with that, which he’s doing.

The Collapse of Confidence in America

But the very fact that I speak to you in this way about this society already tells you something — that the global understanding of the United States as a place where you can safely keep your money is finished. That’s done. This is a country of turmoil, of illegal activity all over the place, a military whose loyalty is now in play. This is what wealthy people around the world want to hide their money from. They don’t want to go to a place that’s like that.

And I think you’re going to see, as the instability deepens and becomes more visible in daily life, the pressure on Mr. Trump — I don’t see how he survives this. But that’s how grim it is.

And by the way, I’m talking to you from New York City. You can feel it in the population here. There’s a level of — it’s not quite psychological depression, but there is anxiety. There is enormous disaffection from the institutions, almost all of them, a turning in of the population. And when you talk to people and you say, “Is that happening to you?” they nod, because someone has put it into words. I’ve never — and I’m born here and lived and worked here all my life — I’ve never had that feeling that I have now, just in the street among people, over a cup of coffee at a coffee shop and so on. You’re picking up a deep sense that something is terribly wrong and that we have to change dramatically.

And that’s why I think it’s extremely important that we here in New York City — the largest city in the country, the most cosmopolitan, largest percentage of people who are Jewish — voted for a Muslim socialist for mayor. I mean, that’s an index of change. We want somebody completely unlike our traditional politicians. And he won for that reason. And he could have been a communist instead of a socialist, he still would have won. That’s the amazing thing. By people who don’t like socialism, don’t like communism, don’t know very well what it is anyway because of the country’s attitude — but it didn’t make any difference. He was a nice young man with a beard and a socialist and a Muslim. Fine, vote for him.

And the man said that if Benjamin Netanyahu visited New York, he as mayor would have him arrested. He said that as part of his campaign, and the Jewish vote here went for him. I think people should understand — that’s extraordinary. It’s really extraordinary.

Europe’s War Discourse and the Search for an Off-Ramp

Again, the only way I see it is if you have a groundswell of opposition. And I must tell you, I’m beginning to see it here. I don’t know enough about Europe to be able to say I see it there. I don’t know, for example, how to interpret the municipal elections in France over the weekend when Paris and Lyon and Marseille voted for socialists to be in power. And I understand what the socialists in Europe mostly are, but here in the United States, let me give you some signs.

The Democratic Party is a party that has a conventional, centrist leadership and an active base that is much more progressive than that leadership. That’s an enormous tension inside that party and usually immobilizes it. If they continue the way they have, then they may even lose the election this November because they can’t overcome the tensions inside. But they might overcome it either way. They might hold on so that Hakeem Jeffries and Schumer and the Clintons and that, horrific — for my judgment, horrific — compromise center of the Democratic Party, they may hold on, in which case there’s a good chance they will lose and an even better chance that they will win and change very little. Bring us another Biden who will preside. Things will get worse and the next Trump will emerge four years or eight years later.

But there is a possibility. I didn’t think it was there until the Mamdani election. There is a possibility that the progressive wing of the Democratic Party will become much stronger, much faster. They have the young people, they have the energy, they have huge numbers. Now just think of it this way. In popular opinion polls, the most popular politician is Bernie Sanders. He is that wing of the Democratic Party. There are serious efforts, I know that they’re there, to put forward Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez as a presidential candidate. This is a young, vibrant, Hispanic American candidate and she would be very successful. I think maybe more than others think, but I think she has that mixture of sharpness and likability that we need in this country for our politicians.

The Youth Revolt and the Job Crisis

And there may be a long delayed explosion of the young. And here’s why. Job prospects for new entrants into the labor market — we keep statistics in this country about that. How many people are graduating from high school or college, entering looking for a job. How many jobs are there? That situation now is horrible. And I can tell you from my own students’ stories, but I can tell you also from the official statistics — you have now five, maybe ten years of young people unable to get decent jobs in huge numbers, just huge numbers. People with college degrees making coffee at a Starbucks coffee shop and grateful to have the job, but bitter at the same time that their degree in, I don’t know, biology or whatever it is they studied is useless to them.

There are no jobs coming for them. If I can believe the tech people that I talk to, we are seeing the implantation, the installation of artificial intelligence in a whole raft of jobs for which college and high school graduates had always prepared to enter. Those jobs are disappearing and that’s going to get worse because we’re just at the early stages of this now. There’s a debate about whether this will really happen or not. I understand that. But if it does, this is going to make a bad job situation very, very bad.

And traditionally those have been the people leading the progressive challenges to power. That’s how it was with Occupy Wall Street, which was the last upsurge — 2010, 2011, around that time — that was fueled by young people in crappy jobs busy trying to change the world because the world had not given them the job and the life that they had been told they would get. Well, we are doing exactly the same thing now, only the numbers are larger.

And I wouldn’t be surprised if a strange event that I didn’t pay attention to, you didn’t pay attention to — you know, like that group of straggly people — I’m speaking to you, a walk from Zuccotti Park, where Occupy Wall Street began. I could walk there in about 12 minutes from where I’m sitting now. The idea that a group of young people who put up a tent in a city park would start a national movement would have struck everybody as ridiculous and humorous and fantastical. I wouldn’t be surprised at all if it happened tomorrow or something comparable.

Trump’s Declining Authority and the Instability He Has Created

So yes, the United States is following Mr. Trump at this point, but the majority don’t do it willingly. The majority don’t like him at all. The majority are voting against him in almost every election that we’re having — major, minor, and in between. So all the signs are there of a tremendous disconnect. And I think Mr. Trump is going to have a harder and harder time.

The whole world of business, for example, having gone through a year of agonizing adjustments trying to figure out how you are going to evade the tariffs, how are you going to cope long term, short term with the tariffs — and then the tariffs are all undone. This is a level of instability that the whole world recoils from. It’s anathema to operating a business, hard enough to do it if there’s some stability. But the United States was the rock of stability. That’s over. It will not — I don’t see that returning at all. It’s all fantasy at this point.

Even the attack on Iran is an attempt to hold on. I’ve said this to you before. It’s an attempt to hold on to an empire undertaken by people who themselves know that the wind is blowing in the other direction. That’s why Trump will say, “Other presidents tried and they couldn’t do it, and I’m going to.” It’s an admission — it’s been a failure. “I’m going to offset it. I’m going to make Canada behave correctly.” Not working. “I’m going to make the Danes accept the loss of Greenland.” Doesn’t look like it. And on and on and on.

Maduro was for him a wonderful respite from difficulty and failure. And I think, in a way that historians will have to check, that may have been the single most important objective — to do another Maduro, sort of, in Iran. If you can’t extract the Ayatollah, well, then use the Israeli approach. Get rid of him. Get rid of two or three of them. Doesn’t matter. If you watch Mr. Trump’s news conference yesterday, he virtually said that, “We killed one. I am told we killed another. We can go in and kill the next one” — like a cowboy, like a crude cowboy.

And that is losing its allure, especially as people begin to understand that they are paying more for their car, they’re paying more for their home, interest rates may go up, the job situation is so grim — and all he gives you is war. And remember, he ran as the anti-war candidate. And it’s becoming so easy to mock him and he has no answer. He just had nothing to say.

Closing Remarks: The Uncontrollable Variables of War and Economy

No way to control it. And they can’t — I don’t know how. Obviously I have no knowledge of Mr. Putin or Mr. Xi Jinping, but Iran has two incredible allies, and if they think this might be the beginning of a global conflict, then they are going to line up behind Iran. They’re not going to sell Iran down the river. It would make no sense at all. And the joke that must pass among them is how ironic that what you — the West and America — did to us in Ukraine, we can now do to you in Iran. How could they resist?

All right. Thank you very much, Glenn.

######## rwt_2 (Glenn Diesen, April 2026) — Wolff turns only
Glad to be here, Glenn.

The Inconsistency of U.S. Policy Toward Iran

Well, I know this may be a troubling thing to hear me say, but I really don’t know anything else but to tell you, along with others, I know I’m not the only one. We have stopped following the kind of herky-jerky, on-again-off-again statements because they are so often the way you just described them, inconsistent one with the other.

You don’t know whether the earlier one is true and the second one an exaggeration, or the second one is the correction of the first one. And before you can resolve that, he has a third one, and then it becomes crazy. And so I don’t know how to answer basically your question. It’s a perfectly good question, but I don’t know how to answer it.

It is inconsistent. Either you are going to take the steps that make oil supply more plentiful and drive down the price. Or you’re not. And anything you do can be interrogated as to which way it is on balance, which way it goes. But if he does almost at the same time allow there to be less oil and then at the same breath more oil, well, you don’t know. You don’t know what’s going to happen.

Dollar Swaps and the Gulf States

By the way, there are other examples too, not so well attended to. Mr. Bessent is now going to have to decide, he may already have done it, on the request of the Gulf states for what are called dollar swaps. This is not unimportant.

A dollar swap is usually an agreement between the United States, either the Treasury or the Federal Reserve on the one hand, and foreign central banks on the other. And the reason you establish it is you have reason to believe that the global supply and demand of dollars is going to be disturbed. And mostly there’s going to be a shortage of dollars.

If you worry about a shortage, you will enhance, you will increase your swaps. All the swap means is that a foreign central bank doesn’t have to go into the market and buy dollars if it’s short of them, it can simply grab a bunch from a swap agreement. It used to be that this was done on a weekly basis. Now it is done with these latest ones on a daily basis, which is already a warning sign. Somebody’s very worried about access to dollars.

So the minute you start looking into this, you discover who’s worried. Which shouldn’t surprise you, the Gulf states, the United Arab Emirates, all of them. Many of them have now put pressure on the United States to give them, when they don’t have them, credit swap facilities, or if they do have them, to make them much larger.

Now why would they do that? The only reasonable answer is that they depend on receiving income in dollar form from selling oil and natural gas. They have borrowed over the years to invest in many countries. So they have dollar-denominated debts. Well, they expected to be able to pay off their dollar-denominated debts around the world with the dollars coming in from oil and gas.

But there are no dollars coming in because the Strait of Hormuz is shut. And the blockade, if anything, makes it worse. So they don’t have the dollars. So they can’t pay off their debts. They can’t pay the interest. They can’t pay whatever the portion of the principal is.

The Risk of a Treasury Fire Sale

Which means — here’s my guess. I don’t know what I’m about to say, but I’m going to guess. They have informed the American government, Mr. Trump, that they must pay off their debts, they cannot sell the oil, they’re going to start selling their ownership of American assets.

What does that mean? It means two things. Number one, they’re going to sell Treasury Securities. That’s going to, if you understand, a fire sale of Treasury securities brings their price down and that raises the interest rate. We are on the edge of a recession right now. If the Gulf States en masse were to sell lots of Treasuries, and if that were to stimulate others around the world who don’t want to see the price of their assets as Treasuries go down, you’re going to see a dangerous spike in interest rates in this country at a time when the Trump administration wants everything other than that.

Number two.

You’re going to see the American ruling class that invests in the stock market see a significant player in the American stock market, the Gulf States, selling whatever it is they have to get the dollars, just like they need to sell the Treasuries to get the dollars to cover their debts.

Okay, this is a tangential story, and I’m sorry to bother you with the economics of it, but the bottom line is you’re beginning to see why a significant number of commentators are waving their fingers, warning that this event, which seems to be localized in the Persian Gulf and the Sea of Arabia, is in fact dangerous for the whole world economy. And this swap problem is the surface manifestation of this global problem, which has a particular salience for the United States because so much of the Gulf dollar business is here in New York with the stock markets and with the Treasury.

The Unraveling of the Petrodollar

Absolutely. I have no crystal ball. I don’t believe in it. No one else does either. But having said that, with that caveat, let me tell you what I think is likely now going to happen.

Mr. Trump has lost a great deal of his mass base. What do I mean? Two things. People who voted for him because of one or two or three issues, those people he has now lost. The two or three issues, in case your audience is interested, is the Epstein file. The government is exposed as having not released most of that relevant information. Holding it back, redacting it in ways that are protecting the president, and so on. So people who expected him to deliver on the promise to open everything about the Epstein files right away because he’s committed to transparency, he’s lost those people.

Number two, the economy, the availability of jobs for young people, and the level of inflation for everybody else. It’s a disaster. The job market here is awful. Young people, my students who are getting master’s and PhD degrees in university here, are talking to me about a lifetime being an Uber driver or a Lyft driver. And not because they are simply excitedly upset, but seriously in somber tones, there are no jobs.

And the inflation is not over for Americans. He promised to bring prices down. He explicitly played with the ambiguity that economists, when they talk about inflation, are talking about the rate of increase. Whereas the common people, when they talk about it in the media, are really more talking about the level. And because we had a serious inflation during this decade, people want the prices to come down. That’s not happening. He’s unable to do that. In one or two sectors with lots of fanfare he does it, but meanwhile the cost of living keeps rising, currently between 3% and 4%. Average wage increases are not even that high. So the mass of people are upset about the economy.

And the Democrats, who have no courage on the Iran issue and not much on the Epstein either, are able to make affordability the big issue. So they’re beating him up with that.

The Iran War and Political Fallout

And then finally, Iran. The war in Iran means he loses the people who wanted him to be the president who doesn’t have war. He coined, remember the phrase, “forever wars.” Well, he’s still stuck in Ukraine. Now he’s added Iran, and it’s clear to the American people, more clear than I’ve ever seen before, right from the beginning, that this is not a good idea. This war is not going well.

And when you have even little things like the strange firing of the head of the US Navy just at the time when the Navy actually has a major task in front of it, the blockade, that doesn’t look good. And who knows what this ex-head of the Navy, who by the way is not a naval career person — he’s a wealthy donor to the Republican Party who got that job as a gift — may be speaking soon in a way that the Kelly, the senator from Arizona, does and so on.

So all of these things are bad for Mr. Trump. And why am I telling you this? Because he cannot afford a spike in interest rates. He cannot afford it. He is at this point, in my judgment, relying on two things to survive politically. Whatever remains of the MAGA base.

And notice Tucker Carlson and Marjorie Taylor Greene, two of his former stalwart promoters, are now referring to him, and I quote: “He is insane. I am very sorry I ever supported him.” Those are quotations from Greene and from Tucker Carlson.

Carlson. So his base is really in trouble. So what has he got left? The answer is the richest 10% of the United States. People who look to the stock market are happy. The stock market is very high. It’s even high in the last few weeks. It took a momentary dip with the Iran war. But it basically presumes that this war will be over soon and it will not cost any rich person anything. So they can keep their money in the stock market. They can continue to buy and to sell and to borrow money and invest that money in the market.

Therefore, Glenn. Here’s the closest I’m going to come to a prediction. If the stock market starts to tank, and could an exodus of the Gulf countries, if they didn’t have an access to the swap, could it do that? The answer is nobody knows. It could. Therefore, my guess is the government will give the Gulf states all the swaps they want. Basically give them an advance access to as many dollars as they need to pay off as many debts as they have without selling treasuries or disinvesting in the US stock market because it’s too dangerous. His ability is too small.

Yesterday, Mr. Stephen Bannon, a former advisor pretty close to him and a far right-wing personality in this country, was begging for the war to be over because otherwise, and I’m quoting, “we will lose power in November.” In other words, he’s so worried about it, and there are enough people around him who are, that whatever Mr. Trump says, I don’t care, we’re fine. None of that should be taken seriously. They are now worried that they are in a fight that they may lose, and they are very anxiety-ridden about it.

They clearly — I mean, footnote — and the evidence now is really pretty overwhelming — they told themselves that they could go into Iran and decapitate, they love that word, decapitate the Ayatollah and kill a few other leading generals and advisors, and that the system would collapse. There would be no, whatever glue held the country together would be gone. And the United States could then dictate terms for a new government, regime change, and a new Shah of Iran replicating more or less what the Shah of Iran used to do for the United States.

The Vance Clip and the Failure of the Iran Strategy

That was a — and that would be a glorious — it would allow them to say what, by the way, Vance — there’s a clip of Vance a year ago talking about war in Iran. I don’t know if you’ve seen it, but it is going around in this country like, what do they say, viral. It’s a viral clip. It has Vance explaining why going into the war with Iran is a wonderful, good idea. A very strong endorsement by the vice president, in which he says the following: previous presidents all knew that Iran was a disaster for the United States, but they were, I’m quoting now, “too dumb, too dumb to do anything about it.” The difference is Mr. Trump isn’t too dumb and we’re going to do it when Obama didn’t and Bush didn’t and Clinton didn’t and we’re going to do.

That was their plan, and that’s why when Tulsi Gabbard and other intelligence officials told them they were wrong about Iran, it was too beautiful a story, too wonderful an encapsulation of how they want to appear to the American voting public that they just didn’t listen. It was too attractive.

And now the herky-jerky that we began this conversation with, the on-again, off-again oil management — this is a desperate government whose plan is shot. Whose opportunities in that direction are all gone, and it’s trying desperately to figure out how to get out of this. And the person that I know you interview from time to time, and I caught him recently on one of your programs, John Mearsheimer, he puts it very, very well. It’s a desperate effort to get out of here with minimum damage at this point. And even that is proving to be harder than they can figure out how to do.

Exactly. My students, Glenn, my students raised their hand and said, a speech like that proves that the dumb one is the one who says it. No analysis, no nothing. They were all dumb. And then now that it’s proven that the hesitancy noted in the earlier presidents sounds now like they were brilliant, that they understood the limits of what they could do. And this one doesn’t. It’s extraordinary. And it looks very bad.

You know, it’s another one of the thousands of misstatements. You know, the shooting of the boats in the — Americans have taken that to heart. Very interesting. For several months they would kill 2 or 3 people in a boat near Venezuela. They would shoot the boat with rockets and kill the fishermen. No arrest, no trial, no lawyer, no nothing. Just kill them.

That lost Mr. Trump all kinds of support. I remember being on a television program explaining to the American audience that when we arrest people for drug traffic, which we do, inside the United States, they automatically are entitled to a lawyer. They automatically are entitled to a trial. They are automatically entitled to defend themselves. And even if we find them guilty, it’s not a capital crime in this country. You don’t get executed for drug traffic. You can get in prison.

So here we have a complete negation of the entire legal apparatus of it. And that is too much for a significant number of people who otherwise would like Mr. Trump, but they can’t go with this.

No Good Outs for Trump

I wish I agreed with you, Glenn, but I don’t. So let me tell you why. He succeeds because that’s what the American people, or at least a large part of the American people, that’s what they want to hear. They want their leader to be a great victory.

Americans participate in sport not very much. But they are absolutely entranced by watching major sport events. The NFL, the Hockey League, the basketball, they are enormous businesses here with billions and billions of dollars involved because the American people are passionate about their team. They want their team to win. The spectator who is ennobled by the victory of the team he is a spectator of is the way Americans deal with sports. It’s also the way they’ve come to deal with politics.

Mr. Trump will declare a victory. He already has. He has declared that the assassination of the Ayatollah equals regime change. He’s made that simple equation so he can repeat over and over again because the people know that their religious and political leader was killed and dead. And you know, that was popular, just as the abduction of Maduro was popular because we won, we prevailed, we, you know, the rest of it. Is murky and disputed.

So I don’t think he has to worry. He is going to win no matter what. He is going to overwhelm the media, which it turns out he still can do. Again, not because of him, but the media itself does not want to be thought of as unpatriotic, uninterested in victory. You will, for example, you will not see any expression of sympathy or empathy for anything Iranian. The Iranians are bad. The Iranians are negative. The Iranians have been killing people.

I appeared recently on a debate. There was an American, ex-American diplomat, and he was going on about the awful things the Iranians have done over the last 47 years, you know, since the mullahs took over. Okay. For an American, where 47 years includes Vietnam, Afghanistan, Iraq, to be an American diplomat, to be finding fault with Iran because it has killed so many people. It’s just, for me, you know, I know the numbers. This is an achievement. You are the ambassador of the country that is the rogue nation of the world. That has 700 military bases killing people all the time, and you’re going to attack little Iran who hasn’t killed very many people at all. It’s extraordinary.

So here’s what I think he’s going to do. He’s probably going to have some dramatic maneuver that he can sell as a victory. There’ll be some Marines who take over an island somewhere in the Persian Gulf. There’s lots of islands. Go take one. Doesn’t matter if there’s nobody on it. Just go take it. Photographs, landing troops, raising the flag, whatever. At the same time, you and Israel bomb something, bomb another part of Tehran or bomb some region you haven’t hit before, knock out a few bridges, maybe an electric plant, maybe a desalination plant, who knows? And then say the Iranians have asked us to have peace. And now that there’s a new regime, we changed the regime. And we punish them. They better, or else we will come right back and finish the job. But, you know, we are decent people. We’ve won what we came here to do, and so we’re leaving.

And that will be the best he can do. He will be attacked. Tucker Carlson isn’t that stupid. Nor is Marjorie Taylor Greene, nor are all the others who are critical. So he will suffer, but that will be the comic book story that will be told, and it will be told to large numbers of people, even those who don’t like him, because it conforms.

America’s Selective Historical Memory

Let me give you the proof. When I travel around the country, and I sometimes do, and I’m asked to give a talk about, you know, the 20th and 21st century U.S. economic development. And I mentioned the war in Vietnam. And then I use language like this. And then in 1975, the war ended, the United States lost. And the Communist Party of North Vietnam won. And how do you know they won? Because they’re the ones in charge of Vietnam now. And that’s a big clue.

The students laugh, but I would bet my money that more than half of the students in the room, if asked by questionnaire in the next 10 minutes, who won the war in Vietnam, they would answer the United States. And that’s what they think. And it’s not because they ever studied the war. They didn’t. And it’s not because no one ever talked to them about the war. People probably did. It’s just that in the United States, America wins and everybody else doesn’t win.

When the president — and so it’s important for your European audience — when the president of the United States says, as he has repeatedly, that ever since World War II, the European nations have taken advantage of the United States, cheated it at every turn and that he’s tired of it and he’s not going to allow that to continue. That’s what most Americans probably believe. And I say probably only because I want to admit, of course, there are people who don’t believe that, but that is, you know, we won World War II. Then the Marshall Plan was our extraordinary kindness in helping you over there rebuild after the war. And some of those debts you haven’t even paid back.

And, you know, when I explained to people that the Marshall Plan required that the dollars given to Europe be spent on American exports, and therefore it was a kind of Keynesian stimulus. They know what I’m saying, but they don’t want to go there. They resist.

So that’s what I think he’s going to do. He’s going to play to the one hand he has left, the American desire for a victory. He has to end that, so he’s going to have a victory. And I’m afraid, let me push you further. If I’m wrong, then the way I’m going to be wrong is he’s going to actually make a serious military effort against Iran, and that will make everything worse. Then he’s gone. Then he’s gone for broke. He will lose the American election overwhelmingly.

You should be aware that there’s a sizable group of Democrats and even a handful of Republicans who have committed themselves. If they take the lower house of the parliament, the House of Representatives, in the November elections, they will take power on the 20th of January, and their first act on the first day will be the impeachment of what will then be — not ex-president, sitting President Trump will then face his third impeachment.

There’s a famous, just a footnote, Glenn, there’s a famous photograph, which I wish I had, but I have seen it. It’s a photograph of a little window in an American post office. And it must have been, I don’t know, 1943 or something like that. And there’s a person there buying stamps and giving money and getting the stamps. And over the counter where the worker, the postal worker is giving the stamps, are two stylized — they’re not photographs, they’re sketches. One is of Uncle Sam. You know, with the top hat and the image that we’ve had of him with the stripes and all that. Uncle Sam arm in arm with someone labeled Uncle Joe. It was Stalin. Looked like Stalin. Big mustache. Uncle Joe.

And then I used that photograph. I explained to my students, we were allied with the Soviet Union in the war. They look at me, my students, they look at me wanting to see if I’m about to tell a joke. Then they nod, then they listen.

We have a famous senator from Alabama. Tommy Tuberville is his name. He ran for the Senate and won, having been the coach of the football team that all of Alabama love. Okay? When he ran for office, he gave a speech where he talked about his grandfather and his father and they struggled and that he was mostly proud of his father who fought so valiantly in World War II against the communists. And he had to wait until the reporters, two days later, because no reporter on the spot said a word. Two days later, the reporters went back to him and said, did you mean? And of course the poor man said, yes, yeah, fought the communists. Had to be explained to him. Communists were our allies, fascists were the enemy. Oh, he said, that was it. He sits in the Senate, Mr. Tuberville, and orates. He’s a specialist on military affairs.

Is the Petrodollar Beyond Rescue?

Well, again, I’m not going to predict the future, but yeah, as you and I have discussed on more than one occasion, I believe the way I make sense of the larger context of what’s going on is the decline of the American Empire. And that means the decline of American capitalism. And part of that story is the decline of the role of the dollar. The rise of China is part of that story. The BRICS alliance that the Chinese have worked so hard to create is part of that story. The American deal — Kissinger, Saudi Arabia — that set up the petrodollar system back in the ’70s is part of what is now falling apart.

And so yes, I think all you’re seeing here is an acceleration of the decline. I think the war in Ukraine has accomplished that partly by exposing the ineffectiveness of sanctions. And I think what you’re seeing now is one of the great lessons of unintended consequences. You go to war in Iran, you think it’s a lark, it’ll have no more effect than snatching Mr. Maduro and his wife from their bedroom. You’re making unbelievable mistakes. And in my judgment, those are the mistakes a declining empire makes, and those are the mistakes that then accelerate the decline, which generates more mistakes, et cetera, et cetera.

The Dollar’s Diminishing Role

The dollar is not playing the role in global reserves that it once did. The percentage is clear. The Iranians are accepting payment not in dollars anymore, for oil. I don’t see any reason to suspect that other countries won’t do that. I don’t see any strategy in the United States that can cope with that or is even being put forward as a way of coping with that. There are proud statements that the dollar is still strong. By the way, that’s true. The dollar is still an important part of the world economy. The United States is an important part. I would never say otherwise. I don’t say the empire is dead. I don’t say American capitalism is finished. I say it’s in decline, and I’m watching that decline now year by year by year.

You know, the promise of the last 10 presidents was to reverse the decline of American manufacturing. Everyone promised it. None of them delivered it. Mr. Trump is not delivering it either. Manufacturing keeps going down, and that’s because it moved. It didn’t die. That manufacturing is being handled by China and a few other places. They’re doing it, and they’re doing it very well. And they’re developing new technologies every day and new products every day. They are doing the job and they’re very conscious that they’re the leader and they have to keep their prices down.

China’s Economic Strength

Look, we worry here in the United States about inflation and what is inflation? 3 or 4%. In China, inflation for the last several years has been less than 1%. You never read about it in the United States, but for obvious reasons you don’t read. They don’t have the problem. They are producing enough material that they can go on and on. That’s why they can produce drones forever and missiles forever. They have an immense border with Russia so that they can share all of that with Russia. And Russia has the Caspian Sea, which allows it to share it with Iran. Of course Iran isn’t going to run out if Russia and China help, which they are. You got to face that. We don’t.

We have destroyed their army and their navy and yet none of this is true. None of this makes any sense. None of this takes into account the support they have. Venezuela had none of that. Even Cuba doesn’t have that. Iran has it. It’s just fundamentally incapable here.

Symptoms of a Declining Empire

And since Americans, being one, are just as smart and just as careful and just as thoughtful as anybody else, you have to explain why they would be doing what they’re doing, why they would elect a character like Trump, why it would be possible for him to talk the way he does, destroy a civilization, go out there and kill the people that are laying mines. What is this? What is this? Childish, but desperate. And that has to be explained.

And for me, these are symptoms of a declining empire whose people have never to this day been prepared to imagine that their empire would decline and to ask themselves the question, what is the appropriate foreign policy towards Europe, towards China, towards the Global South, if you’re a declining empire? We are a hegemon. We deal with these issues as a hegemon. It’s as if history had stopped. Like Fukuyama, right? History is over. The United States is at the top, and so it will be forever. The decline of every other empire the human race has known will stop here, and ours won’t decline. I mean, once you lay it out, it’s so crazy that you realize the denial is also a part of the decline.

My pleasure. And I would like to address particularly something that strikes many of us here, Glenn, as a bit of a mystery. It looks to us as a kind of hysterical demonization of Russia in a way — you know, it would have been inappropriate when it was the Soviet Union, but now just Russia. What in the world is going on? What? I need an explanation. I would like to explore what makes so many in Europe so clear about something which here looks like you’ve lost your marbles here with what we hear. And listening to Macron or Starmer or Merz or Kallas, wow, you know, something terribly went wrong. Anyway, thank you very much and I look forward to our next opportunity.

######## rwt_3 (Chris Hedges, May 2026) — Wolff turns only
Okay, it’s a really good place to start, Chris, because it allows me to talk a moment about economic history. Particularly since the 1970s, major large capitalist corporations — American, but also Western European, Japanese, and others — have followed the guideline of profit maximization, the religion of capitalism, to move production — to make a long complex story short — to move production around the world from being concentrated in the United States, for example, to being spread all over the world.

In 1970 Detroit was the center of the automobile industry for this country, and surrounding Detroit were literally hundreds of medium and small businesses that fed the auto industry. But they were all within 20 to 50 miles of Detroit. All of that is gone, with Detroit showing it. Its population today, just to give you an idea of the social consequences, is about 700,000 people. In 1970, it was just shy of 2 million people. That’s the demographic, if you like, of what happened to that industry.

Well, it went abroad. And here’s the reality: if you go abroad to China for one set of activities, to India for another, to Brazil for a third, what you are creating is long supply chains. This is not a matter of technology. That’s often the misunderstanding — modern technology requires — no, it doesn’t. It’s not about modern technology. The technologies installed in China are not that different from the technologies that were installed here. The reality was that the labor cost in China was much lower, and the desperation of those countries to bring jobs there meant that they offered very high profits, and American corporations took that offer.

No one held a gun to their head. This wasn’t done under duress. This was your normal capitalist investment where the profits are the highest. The end result, which they did not calculate, because they rarely do, was not to take into account all the secondary consequences of long supply chains.

Here are some of the consequences: you have to travel long distances to bring the finished product from China or India or Bangladesh or wherever it is back to the United States for sale.

That means you are dependent on shipping. That means you are dependent on the shipping industry. That means you’re dependent — to take the current events — on the Strait of Hormuz, among others — Malacca, Panama, Suez — and there are many of those, and those are now important in a way that they weren’t before.

Number 2: when you ship everything long distances, and you do it mostly by boat, you pollute the ocean. That’s going to affect travel, fishery, water access, all kinds of secondary consequences that of course should have been taken into account.

Third, you’re going to be subject to political turmoil. If your shipping route takes you here or there, if you need to have storage facilities along the way, which you usually do in case of all kinds of situations, you have to have friendly locations in which to do all of that, and anybody at any point can hold you up, and if they do, then you are suddenly frozen. We’re seeing that now.

Energy is a basic component, but often even a little component — the carburetor in your car — well, the car has to have a carburetor, and even if everything else is available, but the carburetors aren’t, you’re stuck. And when you’re stuck, you can’t deliver on time.

Long story short, this is a wonderful example of what in economics is called the difference between private cost and social cost, private profit and social profit. We as a society need to know what we are investing in in terms of all of its social consequences, or at least as many as we can foretell and get some measure of. But the corporation doesn’t do that, because it doesn’t count the costs it does not have to cover. It’s not responsible for the pollution of the water. It’s not responsible for the political turmoil that may interrupt. So it doesn’t have to count for those things. It doesn’t have to set aside funds to manage the contingency. None of it.

They just go ahead and make their investment. It has all the social consequences I’ve sketched here, and we, the people, the government, the society, are left to try to cope and clean up whatever it is that they didn’t foresee while they make the profit that comes not from the intrinsic benefits of the investment, but from the fact that they don’t have to count, let alone cover, the costs, the social costs that are involved.

We are now living with that. The war between Iran and the United States and Israel — whatever you think of it — is an interruption in a long supply chain. And we are dealing with the enormous social costs that you nicely listed at the beginning of the show. And we’re all going to struggle economically, politically, culturally.

The UAE just withdrew from OPEC — I saw that literally a few minutes ago. That’s one of the cascades of social consequences of this whole situation that will change the oil business and everything that depends on it for years to come.

Supply Chain Disruption Beyond the Strait of Hormuz

Absolutely. And even more, Chris, even more. Every company that has any occasion directly or indirectly to utilize the Strait of Hormuz is now calculating in a way they didn’t before the risk. And that risk means they will have to — or not have to, but many of them will decide to change.

For example, there’s an acceleration of pipeline construction all over Asia in order to avoid dependence on the Strait of Hormuz for oil and natural gas and so on. Okay, that’s diverting investment from other projects to pipelines. No one is thinking about, well, what are the projects that are being put on postponement? What social need were they invented to secure? And those are now foregone because we have to build pipelines all over the place. Why? Because we are worried about the risk of not doing a pipeline.

Countries are making these calculations and corporations. They have to. That’s the job. The purchasing manager in every company, whose job it is to secure the purchase of fuel oil and gas at an appropriate price, is now charged by the CEO with finding alternatives that are less risky and balancing that against the relative prices. Of course, we don’t know the relative prices, because we’re in the middle of all of this and how the relative prices shift is being determined right now.

Just to give you an example, because Europe is in almost as bad shape as Asia about all of this, the strategic reserve of oil maintained by the United States has — about half of it has been used up now and they’re selling that oil way below market price, mostly to the Europeans. That’s a political game being played by Mr. Trump. But the Europeans don’t know how long he’ll do that. They don’t know whether the tariff wars will be reignited the way he seems to want, and that will once again lead to trouble between the United States and Europe beyond what already exists. You could see how far that can go by looking at the alienation of Canada and Mark Carney and all of that.

So everybody’s trying to recalculate, reposition, with an awful lot of variables shifting as we talk. Makes it all very, very difficult. But it doesn’t change the challenge, which I think will eventually be dealt with explicitly. You cannot allow the development of a world economy that ties everybody together without the participation of the mass of people, as if this could be left to the private interests of literally a few thousand corporations who are making decisions based on what’s best for them, granted, but the notion that what’s best for them is what we all need, is being blown apart by today’s headlines.

Inflation and the Global Ruling Class Response

At this point, I don’t think they have a clue, and let me explain why. The National Bureau of Economic Research, one of the major institutions in our country keeping track of economic data, are the place we go to, the economics profession, to find out about business cycles. Long story short, their discovery years ago was that wherever capitalism settles in as the basic economic system, we have a downturn on average every 4 to 7 years. It’s an average, so sometimes it’s shorter, sometimes it’s longer, and each downturn has its unique qualities and paces and all of that. But it is a pattern that we have tried for 3 centuries to overcome and we haven’t done it.

There’s even an entire economics around Mr. John Maynard Keynes developed to cope with the worst of it, the 1929-30 crash, and we have a whole system of analysis called Keynesian economics, and that has helped modulate them a bit, but overcome them? No.

Well, if 4 to 7 is your average, and if the last one was in the year 2020 and 2021, well then, we’re due. That’s the first thing to be aware of. We are due for an economic downturn. And if you read the financial press, the articles are full of that. They know that. That’s not a secret. That’s not something that people on the left believe and others don’t. It is pretty well established empirically.

Okay, so now here’s the interesting thing that needs to be understood. To whatever extent we are on the edge of a downturn, and rising unemployment over the last 6 months suggests it also, and there are other indicators, it is quite possible, although the press never mentions it, that the kind of shock coming from the oil disruptions out of the Strait of Hormuz could actually produce a serious downturn. And if that happened, it’s an open question whether we would have an inflation. We might still see corporations raising prices. If we do, we get that phenomena economists call stagflation, a mixture of stagnation on the one hand and inflation on the other.

But, and let me stress this, it is also possible that the downturn would lead corporations, fearful of being stuck with unsaleable inventory, cutting prices. I want to remind people, in the Great Depression of the 1930s, prices fell, and that cushioned the breakdown for many American families. They lost their job. They had very little money. But the prices for food and clothing and shelter were dropping because the downturn was so severe.

Could we have a comparable downturn? Absolutely, yeah. I’m not saying we will, but we could. And in that event, we will be looking at an interruption, an oil shock, and a deflation rather than an inflation. The economics of that are pretty well known. There are plenty of examples of it going in that way, and we should be aware that that’s part of the problem.

If it is true, as recent statistics suggest, that literally the top 10% of the American consumers — the richest 10% — account for more than half of the whole consumption bundle in this country, then if the other 90% are as strapped as the data suggests, then I don’t know what the reaction will be when you have another dollar a gallon to get to and from your job, to get to and from shopping, to or from going to the movies. And it’s the joke that I hear here in New York all the time: there’s too much month at the end of the money. And in that situation, you will get a deflation because the system will contract bitterly out of all of it.

Food Prices and the Agricultural Sector

No, I wish it did. It just as often means that the farmer makes the decision to let part of his fields go fallow. Let them go, grow weeds, plow them under. That’s another kind of fertilizer. In the long run, you have to do that periodically anyway. The chemical nitrogen from oil is good but has its limits, like everything else. And the question is, how many farmers will take 10 or 20 or 30% of their acreage and let them go in order to save on the fertilizer, figuring they can make it up by shrinking their output.

If enough other farmers do it, and communication is now pretty well developed among them, then the prices will, they hope, go up. But if their prices go down and they’ve cut their acreage, we could see another wave of farmers go out of business. We should be aware that most of our farmers are badly indebted. They don’t have much slack. Even though we don’t have lots of little ones the way America used to, the big ones can go out of business also. They are also peanut counters, and if the prices of their inputs exceed what they can reasonably expect, and if you add the risk of a deflation in terms of the final output, how many Americans are going to make the decision to go from hamburger to Hamburger Helper, to really begin to eat like poor people — grain flavored with a little something else, but it’s basically rice or pasta or bread, etc.

We’re on our way to that anyway in this country, and we can call it all dietetics, so you lose weight, so we don’t have to face that it’s an economic problem. But those are real possibilities that are now shifted from vague in the future to much closer because the Strait of Hormuz, this long supply chain, is disrupted.

The Decline of the American Empire

Well, I mean, this is a sore point for me, Chris. You know me a little bit, so — I think our empire is over. I think what we are living through, you, me, our generation now, is the very unhappy, unpleasant, scary experience of a declining empire, which the Americans have never had. Our empire over the last century was nicely upward. Not for everybody, of course, but for enough of them to give it the quality of an upswing. And particularly after the Second World War, when all the other potential competitors for that role had blown themselves to bits. So the result was we were king of the hill, and that gave rise to the 1950s, ’60s, ’70s, ’80s when you and I both know there was this sort of odd celebration of all things American, American exceptionalism — that if you were religious, then God loved you more than he loved anybody else, and on and on.

Where did this come from? It was very classic, the failure to understand the particularity of the conditions of the moment and a projection, as if something guaranteed that they would stay the same, or even if they changed, they would somehow magically continue the odd special position of the United States. And that’s simply not true.

And starting 10 or 15 years ago, I think it became palpable — not the explanation, because we sure live in a country that practices what my wife, who’s a psychotherapist, calls massive denial. It’s a refusal to entertain the very idea the empire is over, and therefore, what does that mean? How do we approach China or Russia or Iran if we’re a declining empire? It’s a whole different mindset. Then you want to work out how do we go through a decline without blowing ourselves up or blowing the whole world up. It’s not a question of maintaining your dominance. That’s gone. It’s a question of working things out.

Our leaders don’t think or talk like that. They talk like they’re still in the 1970s and ’80s, when you could make an argument that the United States position was extraordinarily dominant. That is over. Vietnam was the beginning of the end, maybe even Korea, but Vietnam for sure, Afghanistan, Iraq, Ukraine now. I mean, unbelievable. We are not in a position to do all the bravado — even the wisdom coming out now that clearly the American government, Mr. Hegseth, Mr. Trump, thought they could do this thing in Iran in a few days, kill the Ayatollah and drop a bunch of bombs in Tehran and it’ll all break apart in our way. That is so catastrophically wrong that you almost — it takes your breath away.

For me, we are living through the end of the Empire, and that end has been accelerated and brought closer by everything going on in the Middle East right now. And because what’s going on from the American side is still premised on the notion that we don’t have a declining Empire, it is making one mistake after another, which is feeding into the decline of the Empire. But that’s what denial gets you. That’s what a similar denial in the decline of other empires — the Roman, the Greek, the Persian, the Ottoman — all of them, the pattern is not that different. You start the denial, you can’t believe it, you don’t want to believe it, you decide not to believe it, and then you make a lot of mistakes that drive the point home because they accelerate the decline.

When I do interviews with the British these days, I invite them: help us. You’ve been declining longer than we have. The American Empire really picked up the pieces when the British Empire was gone. And the British have had to cope with it for a very long time. We’re just beginning and we’re not doing a very good job.

The Dollar, SWIFT, and the Petrodollar

Yes, and there is, if you allow me, a wonderful illustration of the Hegelian notion of contradiction. And here’s what I mean. The Chinese in particular understand — and by the way, I should premise this. I mean, you know me, so you won’t worry about it, but I have to say it these days. What I’m about to say is not an endorsement of China. China has loads of problems that would be worth many programs. This is not an ideal society or anything like that.

But having said all that, China’s economic growth over the last 40 years is absolutely phenomenal. There’s nothing in the world that I’m aware of — and that’s my field, economic history — nobody has achieved that level of economic growth in that short a period of historical time. So they are aware that this miracle of economic development, which they can boast about, was achieved at a time of the United States being the hegemon and the dollar being the world currency. And therefore — and I’ve had this conversation with Chinese economists — they are aware that they better tread carefully and slowly because they do not want to kill something that they know has been part of their success. They are not in a rush to see the dollar disappear. They think that would be dangerous to them, let alone to the rest of the world.

On the other hand, as you rightly are pointing toward, they are the competing superpower economically now in the world. There’s no question. It’s not Russia, it’s China. It’s not Russia at all, it’s China. And they know that that’s what’s happening, and they know that the United States gets extraordinary advantages both out of the role of the dollar as the world currency and the role of the dollar in the oil business, which is part of its role in the world. And they would like some of those privileges — the benefits and values that come from having your currency play that role — they would like it to play that role for them. So they are both deferential to the dollar and the U.S., and that’s the contradiction. They fight against it, they don’t fight against it.

And you can see it in the advice they gave early on to the Iranians, if I’ve read my news reports correctly — they are pushing for the end of the war. They want the Iranians also to make concessions, etc. And it’s a little different from the advice I think Iran is getting from Russia. They have their differences too.

But having said that, the long-term historical process is definitely one of taking away from the dollar its global role. And I think you’re going to see not just Iran, but when the United Arab Republic announced today that they are no longer members of OPEC, that they are going to enter the global oil market in their own way for their national interests, not with the other countries — which is of course particularly important to Saudi Arabia and Iran, as other major oil producers — they were also announcing they’re breaking away from the system. They may still trade in dollars, but then again they may not, or they may split it. They may do some in dollars but some in yuan. We might even see a desperate Middle East get together with a desperate Europe and resuscitate the euro. All of these things are now possible because of the disruption that what is happening in that war now is causing across the board.

The way I would put it, just to spell it out a little bit, the United States is running spectacular budget deficits, and given what Mr. Trump has said, he wants to raise the defense budget up to $1.5 trillion. That’s an increase, by my arithmetic, of $600 billion on a base of $900 billion. That’s a 50%— you know, it blows the mind. And he also wants to do all kinds of other things. And the Supreme Court has told him he can’t collect tariffs, at least not the ones he thought he got.

That means— and I know the American budget— there’s not a new revenue source coming in of any great consequence, and there’s an enormous increase of expenditure being programmed in, and nobody is saying, wait a minute, you’re then going to have to go into the global market, borrow huge amounts of money. You’re a country that already crossed the $40 trillion national debt level this year, and you can’t keep doing this.

For your audience, the 3 American companies— Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s, and Fitch— that do the evaluation of creditworthiness have all now, over the last few years, dropped the credit rating of the United States’ debt from AAA to AA. Okay, still good, but it’s not the best. There are other countries that have AAA. We don’t. The whole world must understand that we are borrowing more than ever when we are a riskier bet than ever. And all of the history of economics teaches us that that situation will produce one or the other of the following two events.

One: People will stop lending to the United States, in which case it can’t run its deficit, and I’ll come back to that in a moment. Or they’ll keep lending, but they’ll demand higher interest rates to compensate for the greater risk of lending to a country that’s got a $40 trillion debt. United States, the most indebted country in the world. Nobody’s close.

So these are very serious. If we don’t have the ability to borrow, or we would have to borrow but jack up our interest rates— imagine, Chris, a recession hitting us for the reasons we talked about earlier, and then the interest rates, instead of going down to offset it, go up because of the global dilemma of the dollar. We would make the recession worse, but we would have no choice.

Why? Because we now rely on deficits, huge ones. As I try to explain, the wars we have fought— Vietnam, Afghanistan, Iraq— if those wars had had to be paid for by raising taxes, we would have seen opposition sooner and bigger. We pay for wars by borrowing. The irony is the rest of the world lends us the money to fight the wars that much of the rest of the world wishes we didn’t fight. But they are complicit. That’s what a global economy is, and that’s how it works.

The Chinese help the people we fight against while we every year send billions of dollars in interest to China because it’s the second largest holder of U.S. government debt. But you and I, our taxes go to the China we say is the great dilemma, but we’re helping them finance their military. And people shouldn’t think that this is a secret. It isn’t. It’s all public knowledge, but it is a consequence of the multiple dead ends into which the United States is proceeding, and you put them together and then you get the scary scenarios that come out of it.

The Dark Scenario: How It Could All Go Really Bad

It goes really bad, here’s one way. There are unfortunately multiple. I’ll give you one. Mr. Trump continues to build up and makes one of two decisions, either A) he actually introduces ground troops into Iran against Iran, or he doesn’t do that but instead bombs wildly their civilian infrastructure. I’m assuming he’s gotten all the military targets that they set out to get, so that’s where they’re going to bomb civilians.

The Iranians, for their part, have told us what they will do. A) They will make it impossible for anybody to go through the Strait of Hormuz, but they will tell their allies, the Houthis, to close the other strait up at the top of the Red Sea. That, in case people don’t know, adds another blockage to global trade movements, very, very important for Asia and Europe particularly. So it’s not going to be the same problem, it’s going to be a worse problem, significantly worse economically.

And meanwhile, they send their missiles to do ever more damage on Israel, and I don’t know to what extremes they will go, but extreme behavior has now been an Israeli hallmark for some years, so we have to assume it will continue. They will bomb things, ports and other facilities in the Gulf countries, so my assumption then will be that everything is worse, that the shortage of oil will be worse, and the shortage of natural gas and helium and fertilizer and the plastics that come out of oil.

People should be aware we haven’t felt all of the impact even of the interruption yet because there is storage and there is some inventory and people turn to that and they’re trying to find alternative sources of oil and gas or even shift more quickly to wind and solar, and all the rest. So there’s a little bit of slack. But what I just described is the capacity the Iranians have to eat up that slack real quick, or to neutralize it. And so it could get very, very bad.

In the Philippines, if I’m informed correctly, they’ve gone from a 5-day week to a 4-day week in both schools and offices and stores. That’s a constriction. Now they have to decide: are they going to pay the workers for 5 days or 4 days? If they only pay them for 4 days, the constriction of demand and all the consequences of that in a poor country like the Philippines— who knows how bad that’s going to get?

So yeah, we have to now think practically that three leaders, if you like— the group around Trump, the group around Netanyahu in Israel, and the group around whoever is exactly in charge in Iran— have in their hands a decision based on all the pressures that they face that are contradictory, of course. But we are all at risk in a way most of us don’t want to face, hence the appropriateness of your questions. But those risks are very, very real, as real as ever we have had them to this point.

You can be destroyed without a bomb falling here or anything else by the accumulation of these interruptions. And again, I’m always struck when Trump says, “We don’t care, we have oil, we have fracking to give us oil and gas.” This is so naively childish. American oil companies are not going to continue to sell oil in this country at a much lower price than they can get a dozen places in the world. It’s only a matter of time before— that’s what a market system is. That’s how it works. And that’s what you’re going to see here. We’re not going to escape the price increases if that’s the way it goes, and we won’t escape deflation if that’s the way it goes. And either of those are now risks that are real.

Are We Flirting With a Global Depression?

Yes, absolutely, because all the leading countries in the world system are wrapped up. That’s what a world system means. And led by the West, no question, because we were the ones in charge as the 20th century evolved into the 21st. We’re the country that had the wealth, we set up the colonies, we developed the colonies in the way we did. They then fought independence, got their political independence, discovered that didn’t give them economic independence.

Now they are slowly realizing and acting on that understanding, but they’re not going to be held back, and so they are now a real force in the global South, and becoming more so. And you put together their demand and what their history is and where they want to go and what it means to the United States that it’s a declining empire, and what it means to the Chinese, the Russians, and in a way the Iranians, that they’re sort of hegemon in the wings waiting to kind of become the next one perhaps. You have a recipe that each one is busy with their own idea, and they don’t have any way to work this out.

World War I was so horrible a war that at least afterwards, there was this effort, the League of Nations, to try to get them to get together. Eventually, led by Italy and Germany, they left the League of Nations, and we had World War II, which was as horrible again, a few years after the earlier horrible, and then we tried the United Nations. And now we see the United States basically withdraw from the United Nations in many formal ways, and in informal ways even more.

So you have very little in the way of even an effort to sit down and try to work out a way that you could accommodate the United States as a declining empire without it having to threaten the whole world, and accommodate the Chinese desire to grow without that threatening the world. I don’t know if it can be done, but that we’re not making the effort— that is so terrible a comment on the human race that I don’t go there.

######## rwt_4 (Glenn Diesen, September 2026) — Wolff turns only
Glad to be here, Glenn.

Well, much of this turns on the degree to which people do or do not believe that rising oil prices, rising diesel oil more in particular, is going to affect people’s voting. Frankly, I’m a little skeptical about the fascination with a very mechanical link that people will not be happy about paying extra for oil and diesel and will therefore vote against Trump. Will there be some such people? No doubt. But whether this is a significant part of what is unfolding here, I’m very dubious about it.

Having said that, the impact is very, very noticeable. For your audience that is not American, I should stress that the United States heavily underinvests in public transportation. Our rail system, our bus systems are very, very poor. They don’t even exist in large parts of the country. But even in the cities where you find them, they are the transportation of poor people mostly, nobody else.

Everybody uses the automobile, the private automobile is dominant. There are famous researches that were done that showed somewhere between the ’30s and the ’50s of the last century, the leading American automobile companies— Ford, General Motors, Chrysler— literally favored, sponsored, subsidized the tearing up of street railways, which had been a popular method of transportation in the United States. If you’re ever interested, the city of Boston and the city of San Francisco have maintained their street railways. In San Francisco, they became a tourist attraction. In Boston, they remain a major part of the larger urban area’s transport. But those are wild exceptions.

Most American cities and their suburbs are creatures of the automobile, which means that most American cities— for myself, I grew up in a suburb of New York City. My mother and father, when we had to go shopping, got in the car to go to the place where you do the shopping. Separately, they took automobiles to go to their jobs. And if we went to a restaurant or a movie in the evening, we got in our car and went to that place. That was how people moved around. When I was 16 years of age, the most important thing for me was to get a driver license because we were able to do that once we were 16.

Long story short, everybody has to fill up their car, at least those who don’t yet have electric vehicles. And the power of the automobile company and the oil companies has been such as to keep subsidies for transition to electric car very depressed. Elon Musk may have had a lot of influence on Mr. Trump, but compared to the influence going the other way, he lost. He had to switch to space exploration to stop being stymied by the economic powerhouses arrayed against him.

So it is a very big problem for all the people that depend on the car. Suburbs are the place where most Americans live, and suburbs are the most auto-dependent of the auto-dependent country. So it’s something you feel every time you go and fill up the gas. You’re departing, you know, you’re saying goodbye to more money than you used to have to pay to do this. So yes, it’ll have some impact.

Diesel, Farming, and the Pressure on American Agriculture

It’s actually having more impact on diesel. And the way that works is diesel, which is a refined version of oil, you have to put it through a refinery procedure to get diesel out of barrels of oil. Diesel is important in 3 areas. Farming where it powers the tractor. Farming in the United States is highly mechanized. Therefore, it’s terribly dependent on diesel fuel to operate most farm machinery.

Because the profit margins in farming have been affected by a number of things. Number one, the problem of the diesel oil operating the machines, but more, it also uses oil, as people know, to make fertilizer, and that’s driven up the price of the fertilizer. And there is pressure from the wholesale grocery stores that handle food not to have to raise the prices as they face their rising prices, so they keep the pressure on the farmer.

You put these together, the diesel, the fertilizer, and the pressure from the monopsony buyers of agricultural output, and the farm states, which loom very large because of the 50-state arrangement. You can win major electoral votes in this country off of a very small part of the population. If you damage farming. Farming has had a stranglehold on the Congress for most of the last century.

So these are very vulnerable sectors.

Inflation, Inequality, and the Housing Crisis

And given the fact that promises were made to offset the inflation that took place in 2021, 2022, and so on, that never happened. The prices stopped rising so quickly. That was achieved. But they didn’t ever go back to where they were before. They kept on rising at a slower rate. For the mass of the people, this seemed to be, as it does as I’m speaking, a kind of endless rising of the food prices.

And lastly, because of the changing distribution of wealth in the United States. And I should underscore the single most important vulnerability of American capitalism now is the uninterrupted 50 years, 40 to 50 years of worsening inequality. And what that did is destroy the building of homes for middle and lower-income people, because that’s a private enterprise in our country. All the building went to the upper end where the wealth is concentrated. So you have multi-million-dollar apartments exploding everywhere in the United States. But for the mass of people, rents are exploding because the population is growing but not met by more affordable housing.

You put all that together, then you get a danger for Mr. Trump and the Republicans at the midterm election. But I wouldn’t put it all or disproportionately on oil and gas.

The Gulf States and the Geopolitics of the Middle East

Well, as you know, because you and I have just been discussing this for a while now, in my judgment, we are only witnessing the particularities of the decline of the American empire. It cannot do what it used to do. It doesn’t want to face it. It has enacted a political leader whose whole job 24/7 is a theatric of the power he doesn’t have, to put on a show which he can’t deliver. And he does that domestically. He does it in foreign affairs.

He’s about to agree to send a shipment of super big bombs to Israel for $40,000 worth of $2,000 bombs. For what? For Israel to go crazy in Lebanon? Maybe to do something even stupider? What is he doing? The same Secretary of Defense who tells him to do that just faced, starting yesterday, an impeachment inquiry in the Congress against him. And the hostility against the defense minister is at a level it has not been in my memory here in the United States. I don’t know how far this will get, probably not very far because of the dependence on what happens in November. But nonetheless, everything is very, very shaky.

And so is the Middle East. If I understand, there’s a meeting today in which, if the news is correct, the Iraqi foreign minister will be explaining to the assembled Gulf state leaders, including a representative from Saudi Arabia and a representative from Iran, as well as the other 6 or 7 countries, I’m basically saying we need to work out an arrangement to stop the destruction, hopefully. And that includes, quote, “the removal of the United States from its positions in the Middle East.” Okay, that’s now on the table. And the Iranians, together with the Houthis, are in a position to enforce this.

This is a very good idea, but if the idea goes nowhere, everybody knows what comes next in this process. And nothing that you can give to the Israelis, no matter how horrible the Israelis are, they can’t much change this either. Because if they move, the ability of the Iranians to damage Israel is now established. Very well established. I’m very dubious that the Israelis have the ability to survive much further given what the position they’ve walked themselves into. So I think this is going to be a radical reorganization of Western Asia and its relationships with everything else in the world.

Supply Chain Shifts and the Fog of U.S. Propaganda

I do believe that you are already— we are already seeing country after country, firm after firm, making the adjustments. The war in Iran is now not over. It’s not going to stop anytime soon. Even if it stops, it will only stop because the Iranians agree, and they will only agree if— and so, for example, people are switching from ocean transport to rail transport to truck transport all over Asia and elsewhere to get around needing the ships. The ships are navigating in new ways. There are new tensions in the Arctic because it is an alternative route if the ice continues to melt for shipping to go on and on. So we’re going to see adjustments in the supply of oil, but also in the demand for oil. And I haven’t even brought up what this all may do to climate mentalities and the speed with which fossil fuels are pushed out of the story.

So everywhere, I’m sure in the headquarters of ExxonMobil or Chevron, they are busily working out their adjustments as it becomes clear. And you have to remember, I’m speaking to you from the United States where the mentality is retarded, and I mean that literally, slowed down because of the blizzard of propaganda, which is all the government is doing. No one really understands very clearly where anything is. Where exactly is the war? How much of our munitions really are in inadequate supply? We get bits and pieces, and the minute there’s any kind of information, there is a load of nonsense pumped out by various agencies of the government to make it all murky, to make it uncertain.

You know, I have friends of mine who are not socially critically oriented but who come and listen to your show and to Mercouris’s show and others because it’s one of the few ways that Americans who know that it’s propaganda try by piecing bits and pieces together to have a sense of what’s actually going on. So the reactions are delayed here. They’re happening sooner. When you read, you know, we don’t read any statements here, for example, that this winter is going to be very difficult because we’re low on oil and gas. We don’t hear that. Europe is full of that kind of worry and that kind of comment. And so I can see people in Europe figuring out what to do. But we’re not there yet. There’s a delay. It’s like having a conversation between London and California. You always have to take into effect the many hours that are different in the 2 places.

Is Israel’s Survival at Risk?

Yes. I didn’t until recently, but I am taken with the speed and the extent of the shift in American public opinion from pretty massively pro-Israel to now pretty massively pro-Palestinian. It is becoming a major problem for political leaders who for the first time are learning bitterly that while they control the government and they control much of the mass media to continue to be pro-Israel, it is costing them in elections.

The Democrat El-Sayed in Michigan, I mean, it’s incredible. In Chicago, it’s a watershed moment that a person like that could make a central issue out of Palestine. And I think what you’re seeing is a radical reorganization of American politics.

When Tucker Carlson and Marjorie Taylor Greene chime in, that means you’re pulling part of what used to be a fairly solid MAGA base out of the pro-Israel and because they are associated with fundamental Christians, and the fundamental Christians developed their own ideological reason to be pro-Israel, that’s now disintegrating.

I think the real discussion in Washington, and I’m speculating here, I’m not part of that community and I don’t claim to be, but if I’m reading the signals right, we’re not having a discussion anymore, how do we protect Israel? That’s over. The discussion now isn’t that different from the discussion about Iran, which is, what is the best way to extract ourselves from this mess?

And that it still means, because of the importance of AIPAC, because of the domestic importance of the financial support that goes to pro-Israel movements and activities, that nobody wants to lose that. The Republican leadership doesn’t want to lose that money, and the Democratic Party doesn’t. AIPAC has long ago been very successful in funding both.

So you have the people at the top don’t want to give up the money, but they have to give up the actual support because it’s costing them and it’s putting into power very important politicians in a country whose point of view public opinion is shifting and shows no sign of unshifting. All the politicians have to pay.

So solution. There has to be a way to arrange for Israel to either fundamentally change or disappear while it appears that the United States is helping them not to do that. That’s the theater that is being debated. How do we appear to help in such a way that makes them disappear.

The parallel with Iran: how can we appear to be the powerful America bombing them while what we’re really trying to do is figure out how to get out of there with the least damage to our imperial status? Very similar struggles being waged by the same people at the top. And that, I think, if I’m not mistaken, they have persuaded Mr. Trump, or at least some of them around him, that those are their twin problems: how to appear to be supporting the people you’re actually burying.

He’s being persuaded that— he wouldn’t put it that way. The way that it’ll be put here is Mr. Netanyahu has been inadequately grateful for the enormous assistance that he has been given for decades by the United States and asked to behave in certain ways, which he has refused to do. He shouldn’t have done that. He didn’t have to do it. And it has cost him. The Americans will continue to support Israel because it’s the right thing to do or language like that. But the underlying message is unmistakable: you’re not playing ball.

And by the way, there’s, as always in these things, there is the grain of truth. They didn’t want the slaughter in Gaza. They didn’t want that. That’s not good for the United States, and they know it. But Netanyahu wanted to do it. And they weren’t ready and didn’t see the political need to do much about that. Okay, let him go ahead. And they let him go ahead using American weapons and American money to sustain a genocide in Gaza. That’s what they did. And they’re stuck with the blame for that.

But that’s a price they’re willing to pay now that they have a, I dare to say, strategic idea that Israel is to be quietly shunted away. By the way, it’s partly a recognition of something. If the United States leaves the Middle East, if Iran is persuasive and the United States leaves, closes its bases, and then what? Israel is going to be left on its own? That’s not a survival strategy. That’s a self-destruction strategy.

And the more that’s the case, the more you can’t disguise shipments of American military to our base in Bahrain or Kuwait or somewhere else. And it has to be exposed like this latest bomb shipment. We’re paying for, giving bombs to Israel so it can do a genocide. This is not a sustainable way.

The American Congress will stop Mr. Trump if the election goes badly for him in a few weeks. It’ll happen already. They’ll stop it. They’re getting close to it already now, and we haven’t even had the election yet. Republicans are standing up against Trump in a wide variety of areas who dared not do it before. And I think you’re going to see more and more of that.

As far as I can see, maybe the Israelis don’t see it. If so, they are playing a dangerous game of denial. In my judgment, they’re in the worst position I have ever seen them in. I mean, this is — nobody is supporting them anymore.

Most of the governments of Europe, I believe, have now at least said something about settlements on the West Bank and that that must stop. Or what did England do? Sanctions. We won’t trade with somebody who’s on the West Bank settler. I mean, okay, these are theatrics. They’re not very real. They probably won’t be enforced. But the direction of change is unmistakable, and each government that does it strengthens the movement across Europe to do more of that.

It’ll be very easy for the Arab countries to show that the theater so far enacted is mostly theater, and that will be a goad to a stronger-than-ever movement to get more than theater. And that’s what politicians understand. They put their finger in the air and they see which way the wind is blowing. You’d have to be dead not to get which way that wind is blowing now. And Mr. Trump, he knows it too.

But yeah. It would, but take the same logic the next step. If their backs are to the wall, I have had Israeli people who work in the Israeli government tell me that, their concept of their right is to take the whole world down with us if we go down. That’s a quote from an official of the Israeli government told to me some years ago, but from everything I can tell, a very alive way of thinking.

Okay, but if there is one thing in the world that will unite the entire world against Israel, it would be its use of nuclear weapons. No one is going to be impressed by giving them a pass because they were in trouble, especially now given their reputation for the genocide they performed that they didn’t have to. They have lost every chance of getting away with a use of nuclear weapons.

So what are they going to do if the United States and China and Russia and Pakistan and India, all, and whoever else has nuclear weapons, decide to punish Israel for being the first one to use them? It’s finished. And Israel is a very small place. Will not be much effort needed to do to Israel what the United States did to Hiroshima and Nagasaki.

So, I mean, well, that’s no solution for them either. It just isn’t. And it will make them a pariah even more than they have already become. The irony of this, the total absurdity of the victims of a Holocaust being the ones least able to learn the lesson. Spectacular. But it isolates them. It’s not a question of will they be isolated. They are isolated.

The whole world would at this point, I think, vote overwhelmingly almost any program of punishment of Israel the minute the United States says it’s okay to do that. Look at the UN votes. You get 150 countries to 1 or 2 or 3 little islands in the Pacific and Israel and the United States. Okay, remove the United States and you’re done. Drop a nuclear bomb somewhere, you lose the United States. That I would assure you, you’d lose it in a moment. You’re losing it now without that.

I don’t think that’s an option for them unless you really have, and maybe you do. I mean, I don’t go to Israel. I don’t have a — I don’t know anything about it, but I find it hard to imagine an entire population ready to self-destroy on that scale. Given all that they’ve been willing to do to other people to survive, the survival instinct seems very uppermost in their minds. And this would be a survival negation that is so obvious that even they, I think, would see it.

So that’s a long answer. Short answer is it is now on the agenda — whatever you and I decide, it is on the agenda that the United States — to say something like the Iranians now say, and they say it often, that one of their goals — it’s not just that because they won the war the way you put it. I would put it differently.

If you want to reopen the Strait of Hormuz, and now the Red Sea, you got to get out of there. In other words, you will benefit, the strait will be open, you can withdraw your armada, your blockade, you’ll save a lot of money, you’ll have an open passage, but you got to get out of here. You’re not welcome. Nobody wants you.

And, wow. That leaves Israel, because Israel is going to be the one place that has nothing to lose if the American military are there. They are already a target, and they will be a target when the Americans leave and when they don’t leave.

So you may get some accommodation there, but maybe Israel will offer itself as a hostage. They’ll say, station 10,000 American Marines permanently in Israel, spread them all over so that any Iranian attack on Israel will kill Americans. And then they can hope — which I don’t think is reasonable either — but then they can hope that if something happens, the Americans will have to enter in because Americans have been killed in some sort of struggle. Maybe they’ll come up with that.

But these are stretches, stretches of credulity, stretches of effectiveness. And it’s not at all clear to me that that will work. But that’s all that’s left.

Europe’s Strategic Dependency and the Absurdity of Anti-Russia Posturing

Israel is all by itself. It put all its eggs — look, it’s a little bit like a conversation you and I have had about Europe. At the end of World War II, for perfectly understandable reasons, Europe hitches its wagon to the United States. It has seen the most powerful European military, Hitler’s Germany, run up against the Russians and be defeated. And they know how much of their military power was expended finishing up World War II.

At that point, the Red Army marching into Berlin, you could have a credible notion, oh boy. And when you remember how many of the resistance organizations were full of communists and socialists and the possibility of something changing in the rest of Europe was real, was real. And they looked to the United States to save them. The United States wanted a buffer zone to save itself. Okay, a deal was made, but the Europeans have kept hold of that deal long after it didn’t make much sense anymore. But they weren’t willing to question it. The Americans weren’t willing. All European politicians who wanted to succeed clumped under the umbrella of the United States to do that.

That’s why you have the likes of Merz and Macron and Burnham and wow, nothing at all but an American frontman. And even when the Americans kicked them away, say, we don’t need you, we don’t want you, you’re a burden, we don’t want to have anything to do with you. Even then they can’t let go.

Instead of confronting the real danger, which is that their patron withdraws, they invent another danger, Russia, to justify remaining subordinate to the patron. I mean, a psychologist has a field day with this kind of behavior. This is a bizarre way of holding on to what you should let go by creating an even worse danger for yourself.

Really, after doing nothing significant militarily for 75 years, you’re going to go up against a Russia which has just shown what it’s capable of and is allied to the number one manufacturing power in the world. This is a moment you’re going to fight with Russia? What? The very preposterousness of what they’re doing.

And then to have — I mean, it’s becoming ludicrous. Yesterday, if I read correctly, please correct me if I’m wrong, if I read correctly, a leading official in Poland proudly explains how they would — they, the Polish army — would defeat Russia in a couple of weeks. Okay, I’m no military expert at all, but I know junk when I hear it. That’s junk.

That’s exactly what Mr. Trump said about the war in Iran, it would be over in a couple of weeks because Israel and America are so powerful. Nobody I know thinks that the Polish military are so powerful. But even if they measure up to their own standards, really, against Russia allied to China, you, the Polish people, will find it is crazy, and it makes you wonder what’s going on in Europe that makes this kind of blather work as a political argument.

The Geopolitical Landscape: NATO Rhetoric and the “Middle Countries”

The mentality also, I mean, Estonia, Estonia, it’s like the rising of New Jersey or something. Rhode Island.

You know, you realize people have lost. Listen, when here in the United States, when we read statements by, what’s her first name? Kallas.

It’s the same thing. I mean, everyone scratches their head and what planet exactly are you living on? Although, you know, I’m grateful to her because when she talked about the need to fight Russia in order to defeat Russia, and the need to defeat Russia in order to carve it up into a whole group of small countries that could then each become colonies of Western Europe, then you understood, oh, there is a strategic vision buried in this.

Now, you know, it’s so crusted over with craziness that you have a hard time getting to it, but there is something there, just as there is with Mr. Trump and Greenland and Panama and Canada and all the rest of it.

And here’s what I mean. I think the Chinese with the Russians and so on are more than willing and more than able to step right in and fill whatever these vacuums are. I believe that in these countries in Western Asia and others, many of the smaller, weaker, middle countries, there is considerable tension.

On the one hand, they want out from under the United States, and the more they witness the United States as at best a mixed blessing with very heavy dangers and costs associated with it, the more they are interested in an alternative. But they also worry, and we can argue whether it’s reasonable or not, but I believe they worry, are they leaving one dependency and exchanging it for another one, and they will come to regret that? A normal worry. If you’re trying to escape from a relationship that you thought was in your interest but turned out to be an albatross around your neck, you’re going to be very nervous about it.

And for me, that’s how I understand the largest country in the world, but I would put it in the middle, India. India, for me, in recent years is trying to figure out where, how it’s going to maneuver between China-Russia on one hand, with its complicated relationships, and the United States and Western Europe and Japan on the other side.

And, you know, let’s remember at the beginning of this year, Mr. Modi went to Israel, was invited to address the Knesset, their parliament, and did not criticize anything about the United States. And when the United States and Israel, days after I believe he gave his talk, invaded Iran, he was silent. He didn’t say anything. He didn’t say it was outrageous. He didn’t say it was wrong. He talked about the need to find peaceful solutions.

At this latest SCO, 8 months, 9 months later, he signed the joint statement. The joint statement expressed grief at the killing of the Ayatollah and denounced the war, put the blame squarely on the United States. And wow. Now, you can handle this as, look at Mr. Modi, he’s one and all these the other, and he’s wobbling around. And that’s true. But he was very pro-American, and much more recently, he was very not so pro-American. That’s my answer to your question.

I think all these countries are doing something like what Mr. Modi is doing. They don’t have the attention because they’re not the head of the biggest country in the world now. Well, India is a colossus. But I bet you they’re all doing it. The people in Indonesia are doing it. The people in Pakistan are doing it. They’re all doing it one way or another. You know, each has their own particular angles, but that’s going to be the outcome.

If that middle group decides not only that they have to leave the United States, but that the cost of doing so is making a deal with the Chinese, and they’re going to have to make that deal. They will, and then it’ll become suddenly very clear which way the world is going.

And by the way, I think the Israelis understand that. Recent Israeli political, foreign policy initiatives are with other little countries like Tajikistan and things like that. So the Israelis are cutting the deal to use an old Volkswagen factory that is now closed because Volkswagen can’t exist anymore. They’re going to make bombs and missiles for Israel. Okay. Israel is trying to make deals with private enterprises and in these middle countries, perhaps hoping at least to slow down what is happening.

And my guess is it won’t work. And that’s because Israel is too little, too small. Doesn’t matter. There’s not enough money there to change most of these other— it can be a godsend for a particular empty factory someplace, but beyond that, no, it’s not going to change German policy either.

The U.S. Bond Market and the Long-Term Debt Crisis

A little bit of both. I think there are immediate reasons that are easy to identify. If you do an analysis of the bond market, you know where the money comes in to borrow and where the money comes in to lend, then you’ll know that there’s an explosion of investment in data centers, and in electricity generation construction to service the AI colossus that is being invested in.

And those people don’t want to risk their own money, and they don’t have to because they have names like Amazon or Apple or Microsoft, etc., etc. So they just have to announce, “We want to borrow $50 billion,” and the money that wants to be lent out rushes to— because it’s almost as secure as lending to the US government. So you have a competitor of the US government coming in and saying, “Lend to us.” Normally, that would only get you a certain response. Now there’s a rush there to take advantage of this moment and to lock in a nice long-term commitment so that Microsoft, as it changes the world with AI, gives you, the bank, a piece of that activity. So that’s causing interest rates in the short run to go up.

The American government is running deficits, big ones, trillion-dollar deficits. Not only that, it insists, because of the theatrical mentality of the leader, in suggesting things that only make the government deficit worse. Trump has found no new sources of revenue that are significant. Meanwhile, he announces one largesse after another that he can’t afford.

The most recent being this offer, which is illegal under American law, that if the people of America vote for his Republican Party in the midterms in November, he will give every adult $5,000. Okay, well, if you do the math, we have 200 million-odd adults. That’s $1.3 trillion. What? We already have trillion-dollar deficits. He’s going to add another trillion. Paid for how? There is no way to pay for that. That’s just going to be borrowed money. Well, the government already in debt $40 trillion. People are worried about that.

And now we come to the long term. The long term is very unambiguous. The level of debt keeps rising very quickly. And the economic strength and wealth of the United States is not growing comparably at all. We are a poor performer. We’re going to get 2.1% GDP growth this year. China is going to have 2 to 3 times our rate of growth, which is what they normally have. So a declining relative wealth situation supporting a rapidly growing debt situation. Every bank that ever sent any of its officials through a course says, “Don’t lend to such a person or entity, or make sure you get higher interest rates to compensate for the risks.”

Now, what would set off the United States would be if the mass of people were to say to the government, “We are not going to allow you, you politicians, president, treasury secretary, Fed bank, the Federal Reserve chair, and so on, we’re not going to let you take $1, $2 trillion out of the annual budget simply to pay interest.” Why? Because we have politicians, and Glenn, I’m one of them, in this country who will be screaming out loud, “You are— the national debt is a way of scooping money from everybody and shoveling it to the richest people among us because nobody else but the rich lend to the government.”

So let’s keep in mind what we are, and that’ll make it impossible. The people won’t allow it. You’re going to have demonstrations where old people are having a pension cut in order to fund the national debt. This is impossible. And you’ll have a politician begin to suggest, and wait till that day comes, that we have to suspend the repayment of the debt. “Oh, only for a year. We’ll get our house in order.” Whoa. You know, when that happens, you have to have an international conference to discuss how you manage a default when it’s the richest country. The most indebted country on the planet can’t make its debts. It becomes an allowance for the lesser countries to do this. This should keep a banker up at night. This is a dangerous— we’re not there yet. That’s true. Can they get away with doing even this crazy thing with the $5,000? Yes, they can. But they are inexorably leading us ever closer to the moment when this doesn’t work.

And I want to remind you, because you were probably paying attention when I was. You remember Liz Truss in Great Britain? She’s the prime minister. One of her first acts is a new budget. She announces the deficit and how much they’re going to borrow. And in 24 hours, the City of London says to her, “No way is that going to happen. We are not going to buy the government debt. You’re not going to be the prime minister.” And in a week she was gone. Her total time in office, I believe, was a matter of weeks, 3 or 4 weeks, and she was out of there.

So it is a— and that’s a very few years ago. So this is a modern event. England is a declining empire, don’t we know, further along in its decline than we are. But that’s the long-term problem. That has not been solved here and therefore only gets worse.

Trump’s Stock Trading and the Woody Allen Punchline

Yes, you’re absolutely right. But he is— I don’t know if you caught it, but yesterday there was a government agency, they calculated the number of stock trades done in his name with his money, Trump’s, compared to the number of stock trades undertaken by all 100 senators in the US Senate and all 453 members of the House of Representatives.

And Mr. Trump did more buying and selling of stock than all of the others combined did. The man was busy. Trading stocks every day. And he’s made apparently $1 or $2 billion and no one can say a word, even though the one man who knows when to buy oil company stocks because the bombing of Iran has resumed and when to sell oil stocks when a ceasefire is about to be announced. He knows, and his children know, and his foundation knows.

So he’s making lots of money. It’s wonderful. And the leaders, and Mr. Musk is about to become the first trillionaire. I mean, the news, if you collect it, remember him being inaugurated, in January of 2025. And sitting on the platform behind him were Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg and Jeffrey Bezos and all the other oligarchs in this country. They’re all making a lot of money, no question.

As people who study the stock market point out, the so-called Magnificent Seven are what keep the stock market up. The average medium and small company is having all kinds of trouble. Nvidia, Anthropic, these are the companies that keep the stock market high and the oil companies. Other than that, no, no.

There’s a wonderful film by Woody Allen that begins or has in it the following. We close with this passage. He’s talking to someone who says, “Wow, that’s a beautiful watch that you are wearing, Mr. Allen.” Ah, he says with that Woody Allen smile, “This is so important to me. It’s from my grandfather. He was on his deathbed when he sold it to me.”

Yeah, you have to add that Mr. Trump is making money hand over fist. He may not be able to stand up. But he’s making the money.

So catch that scene, it’s priceless. Take care. Bye.

######## rwt_5 (Glenn Diesen, September 2025) — Wolff turns only
US Empire in Collapse, China Builds Rival System (Transcript)

-   September 6, 2025 5:30 amSeptember 6, 2025 5:30 am
-   by Pangambam S
-   Podcasts (category)

[]

Read the full transcript of Professor and economist Richard Wolff in conversation with Norwegian political scientist Prof. Glenn Diesen on “US Empire in Collapse, China Builds Rival System”, September 6, 2025.

INTRODUCTION

Thank you very much. I’m glad to be here.

Well, I admit that I come to this from a Western perspective. I should make it clear I’m an American citizen, been born and did my work and live here in the United States. I’m speaking to you from New York City. So I come at the answer to your question from the standpoint, not just of the west, but literally of the center of the currently declining Western empire.

So to me it is very dramatic, it is very fast, it’s unraveling in what seems to me a short amount of time. I understand human history to have seen many empires – the Greek, the Roman, the Ottoman, you name it, in all parts of the world. And I’ve always understood that to be a long slow process. So I do somewhere understand that it is long and slow. And I have to remind myself of that because it seems right now to be unraveling very quickly.

So I don’t want to resolve that. I don’t think that’s a contradiction that should be resolved. I’m more of a Hegelian. That’s a contradiction that is constitutive of the reality in which we live. So having said about the long and the slow, let me tell you how it looks from someone who right now is struck by how fast it’s going.

The Ukraine War as a Symbol of Western Decline

And here’s how fast I mean by fast. The war in Ukraine is part of this. And that’s only three years now. A little over three years. And look what happened at the beginning. We were told by our leaders here that Russia would be on its knees, that the ruble would become rubble, in other words, that this was going to be a short, easy, one sided story.

And we were kept with that story into much of 2022, much of 2023. And so on, as the west added more and more layers, more sanctions and more weapons and higher grade weapons and more money. And what we have seen, very dramatic to us in the face of all of that, a steady defeat at the hands of Russia, whose ruble didn’t collapse, whose economy didn’t fold, whose economic growth record is faster these last three years than that of the United States, if you measure it by annual percentage growth of GDP and so on.

That is very dramatic and is leading this country to have a kind of schizophrenic splitting of the consciousness. There is a minority, I want to be clear, a minority, although significant, that sees Ukraine as a defeat. Part of Mr. Trump’s behavior is because he sees it that way, too. But the overwhelming majority of Americans will not admit this. They are denying what I just said, that the war is not over, that the war is not being won by the Russians, that more effort is coming and will be victorious when this is over.

Signs of Desperation: Military Rebranding and Aggressive Actions

Second example, and these are little things, but you should see them in this context. We once upon a time had a Cabinet office called the Department of War, in which the United States copied Great Britain, who also called that the Department of War. Then after World War II, when the United States position was global empire manager, it was changed to Department of Defense, and now it is being changed back to Department of War.

That’s part of a positioning of the United States in its own mind as big and powerful. And now taking the veneer, the wrapping off to reveal the underlying raw power, in the same day that they announced that the American military destroyed a boat that was 1,000 miles away from the United States in the Caribbean, the South Caribbean, near Venezuela and Trinidad.

A boat in which 11 people were moving, no one knows from where, no one knows to where, and no one knows what was in the boat other than the 11 people that were summarily killed. What’s going on here? There’s no state of war between the United States and Venezuela. There is no threat to the United States by a boat, a little boat, you know, a boat that has four outboard motors that is a thousand miles away.

You have to think, why would you do this? What in the world would possess you to be the judge, the jury and the executioner all at once of these 11 people, whoever they were with which we will probably never be told here, maybe somewhere else, but not here.

And then now finally punishing Mr. Modi and the Indians by an increase in the tariff which was already heavy on them because they would not stop buying oil from Russia.

This is a secondary tariff. This is a tariff that is punitive. This is a tariff that, if it is allowed to stand, will damage Indian businesses and American businesses in significant degrees.

Acts of Desperation

What is going on? In my judgment, these are desperate acts. I use the word intentionally. These are acts of desperation, of a government trying to hold back the decline because they, like me, see it as fast. Ironically, I have to say now it isn’t as fast as they fear it to be.

It’s partly the political stance of the United States to justify the extremity of the tariff war against the world, of the sanctions against much of the world. These are extraordinary, aggressive actions that have to be justified. And the justification here is the ironic and in the long run, very dangerous reinforcement of the notion of a declining empire by those people working hard to prevent it.

But they inadvertently, by having to justify what they’re doing, teaching the American people to fear a process that is in fact underway, but that most of them most of the time still want to deny. So they’re caught between the urge to deny and the irony that the people riding that wave into office have to reinforce it.

Something similar, I believe, is going on in Europe. In order to justify 5% of your budget for defense, you have to hype the threat of Russia invading all of Europe. You have to revive 75 years of cold War mentality as if the Cold War were still there. And so you inadvertently, you are frightening your people. And that will come back and hurt you since your leadership screams every day of its incapacity to manage any of this.

The Rise of the East: A Complex Transition

Having said all that, I do think that what’s happening in the east is an important milestone in the decline of the West. I don’t think these things will happen overnight, and I see them as full of contradictions.

Is it a sign of the economic maturity of the East? Yes. Is it a sign that the BRICS countries, the SCO countries, all of that part of the world, is beginning to seriously disconnect from the United States because the United States is behaving as a rogue player in the world economy? Yes, I think that’s going on.

I think India is trying to solve problems with Russia and China to isolate the United States relative to itself. I think these are extraordinary steps happening in a long, slow process. But more quickly and that the United States own desperate efforts to hold it back are having the contradictory effect of speeding it up, which only reinforces the American desperation.

This is a dangerous loop because of its military implications. But as I say, I think there are also all kinds of contradictions.

The Dollar’s Complex Role

For example, the US dollar as the world currency is definitely part of the US domination of the US Empire, the way the British pound was for the British Empire before. Yes, all that’s true. And so the rise of the BRICS, the rise of China challenges some of the privileges that the dollar gave to the Western empire.

But we have to remember the dollar was also the global currency within which China achieved its economic miracle of the last 30 to 40 years, and India also. So it’s not as though the dollar was some obstacle. You’d see much more anti dollar activity because they’re capable of it. But why would they? Having a universal currency is not a bad thing. For the country that wants to be the universal provider of manufacturing in the world, that’s a convenience.

It’s a little bit like the relationship between Chinese manufacturing and the major retail giants of the Western world. Amazon, Walmart, Target, those are mass distributors of the mass production of Chinese manufacturing. They need each other. Without China, Walmart wouldn’t be the number one retailer in the world, and vice versa.

So I think inside China you will see and there are already signs of people in no great rush to undo the dollar. The dollar is very convenient and they are aware, which I as an economist would tell you, that most capitalists would rather a situation that has costs than the uncertainty of what would happen if the dollar weren’t the global currency.

China has capital controls. The Chinese Yuan cannot, at least not yet, play that role. No one else can either. So beyond a certain point of looking into it, if you really begin to move in that direction, you would have an uncertainty about global payments, global exchange currency that many capitalists do not want to see, do not want to have to navigate, do not want to have to ensure against the consequences of.

The Cautious Nature of Transition

It’s a more complicated process than you might imagine. Yes, one empire is dying and something else is emerging. But that’s a slow process because the one dying is desperate to stop it. And the ones who are inheriting the new mantle are very understandably cautious and nervous about how this is working and need to manage it and feel that need very intensely.

And I haven’t even said a word about the military dimension of all of this. And you should be aware that that too is a danger lurking in the background. If you provoke the west, particularly the United States, if you deprive it of its economic hegemony and you deprive it therefore of its political hegemony, it may decide to rely on what’s left, which is the military hegemony. And that’s with a world of nuclear weapons, very scary.

The Militarization of American Society

And I would have to remind everyone that the budget just passed here in the United States contracts everything that the government is doing relative to the Defense now War Department, and to an altogether new entity, which is a new internal army called I.C.E. whose current orders give it something on the order of $170 billion over the next five years to multiply it by several in size.

Yes, they are currently ordered to deport undocumented immigrants. But I would urge everyone to remember a very deep historical lesson. The army that is organized and does horrible things abroad, sooner or later comes home and does those things at home. This new army can deport anybody. Doesn’t have to just be. They can’t yet legally. But who knows where this will go.

But it tells you a society that is taking its money and betting on the military, even at the price of dismantling or accepting the dismantling of its economic and political hegemony.

The Dollar’s Declining Dominance and China’s Strategic Patience

Yes. I mean, again, remembering that you and I are sitting in the declining end of the spectrum. Yeah, it is very fast. I think of European culture like you. You go back to when they started sailing their ships around the world and constructing their colonial empires.

But I also go back to around that time, although I think more in terms of the Renaissance and the Reformation and the whole development of Europe as it luxuriated in its image of itself as the center of the world, the cultural center, the political center, the military. It had several centuries of a tremendous self celebration which carried it across many of its contradictions, like they slaughtered each other on a scale that the rest of the world probably has never seen, culminating in the two world wars, etc.

But it is spectacular that all of this, which we took for granted over 500 years or whatever the numbers are, should be falling apart. But it is and it isn’t. Let me give you again the contradiction.

As we look at our president here in the United States, we noticed at his inauguration he had lined up on the platform behind him not the greatest thinkers, not the greatest athletes, not the greatest poets or actors and actresses. He lined up the billionaires, the Musks and the Zuckerbergs and all of those people.

And the other night, I think last night or the night before, they had a major dinner in the White House and we were all shown pictures of this major dinner where all the high tech leaders came in from California and sat around in the White House with the President. The only one excluded, Elon Musk, because he’s misbehaved and so Mr. Trump has to throw him aside. It’s also a message to the other people around the if you behave, you will be at this table and if you don’t behave, you won’t.

Government Ownership in Private Corporations

And now the even more important steps of the last two weeks. The United States government took a 10% position in the stock ownership of the Intel Corporation, one of the giant companies in California, with a written agreement that they can buy another 5%. Well, if you own 15% of the shares of a company like that, you are a de facto decision maker. You are among what we call the major shareholders. Who are the owners of these business who can have a disproportionate effect on who is on the board of directors and what they do?

Well, this is extraordinary. To save the company. It was said for national security, it was said the government and the top echelon of this corporation become the same thing. Well, let’s see, that means if workers strike that company, they’re striking the government. Will the government send in soldiers, which sometimes happens? Will it be then a strike against the government? Will the union be unable to function? Will the government throw the union out the way they are doing now with the government employees at the federal level where they are directly removing the union?

I mean, we’re talking about really big changes in the internal structure of American capitalism. There was an agreement made with Nvidia and AMD to get the government gets a 15% cut of the revenue from their being allowed to sell chip making machinery, I believe, and chips to China. Now the government is a partner in those two corporations.

Now, if you remember what German fascism was or Italian fascism, the merger of the top echelon of German companies with the Nazi party or Hitler Mussolini’s fascists. You should stop and take a deep breath here.

The New American Capitalist Structure

What is emerging in America is a capitalism that has two foundations. The big collections of capital, Vanguard, BlackRock, Blackstone, known over all the world because they’ve begun to be the capitalists of the world. And the high tech, which is the only remaining dynamic part of the American capitalist system, the big financiers and the high tech.

And Mr. Trump is positioning himself as their spokesperson, their leader. And would they sacrifice much of the rest of American capitalism? The answer is yes. And why would I say that? Because they’ve been doing it. They have made the money from the last 30, 40 years of globalized neoliberalism. They are the victors. They have the global market, they have the global capital coming into their hands and they have bought large portions of it.

The left wing in Berlin struggles for a rent control system and discovers that the largest landowner landlord in Berlin is the American. I forget whether it was Blackstone or BlackRock, but one of them is the major landlord they have to contest with. Wow.

This is an extraordinary reorganization of American capitalism to be the agency, if you like the old notion, the central committee of the capitalists. That central committee the US government recognizes the financiers and the high tech and the rest of it. They do not. They will profit from the total global picture and they want deals with the Chinese. They don’t want war.

And that’s a contradiction also because Mr. Trump wants them to think that his global dominance is their best way forward and they are not sure of that and at all. Many of them don’t want that, don’t like it and argue and push against it. That’s being fought out here and will be as powerful a shaper of what now happens as will be the contradiction between China and the BRICS on the one hand and US G7 on the other hand.

Historical Parallels to Fascist Political Economy

Don’t think it’s going to play out well. I think what you have here in the United States are you don’t have fascism yet, but you have the assembling of the conditions and the parts. Will they come together in a fascism? Could they? Absolutely. Will they? I don’t know. I think it’s a little too early to say.

But look, I mean, there’s no lack of suggestion of where it can go. The same president who is enormously increasing the defense budget and enormously increasing ICE as an internal army has already shown he’s willing to send that army into the cities, into Portland, Oregon in his first presidency, now into Los Angeles in his second, and with threats now for New York and Chicago.

Okay, what are you sending them in there for? To clean up crime? I mean, nobody, and I really mean this, nobody in a serious position had anything like this to say. Most of our crime statistics show a falling off of crime in recent years. Not that that’s all that important. But the reality is he had to make this up.

He had to go to the rural areas which think in rural areas in this country there’s a fear of the city. Many rural people do not go to this city. And when you ask them why do you never go to the nearby city, “oh, I will get shot or they will steal my wallet.” But these are fantasies. I live in New York City. Nobody stole my wallet. Nobody has ever shot it here.

Manufacturing Crises for Military Deployment

You’re seeing the president have to hype to kill the 11 people in the boat a thousand miles away. And to talk about the drug trade, you know what, the drugs are everywhere. The drugs I can get anywhere in New York City or any other American city, that’s a big problem. So he’ll talk about that, but he’ll talk about crime. He’ll make things up in order to provide an excuse to use the military.

Now that he’s becoming a share owner in a company, will he use it for that? The headlines in the United States today were ICE went to a factory in Georgia that makes automobile batteries overnight and arrested hundreds of workers because they are undocumented immigrants. Well, it turns out a little research shows that there have been some industrial accidents at that factory and the undocumented immigrants took the chance of reporting them.

And so the management didn’t like this. And you can now be sure no undocumented immigrant who works there will report anything because they’re all being deported. And who knows who they’ll will be replaced. We are seeing signs of all of this.

Political Struggles and the Rise of the Left

Will the American people support it? Not clear yet. We don’t have the AfD in Germany or Le Pen in France or Farage in Germany or Meloni in Italy. We don’t have that yet. But we have the same splits. We have an emerging left which is strong in the United States, not very well organized, but strong in the United States.

That’s why we’re about to elect a socialist Muslim to be mayor of New York City, the largest city in the country, and looks like he’s going to win and can only be defeated if the following event occurs. That the mayor of New York currently, who has been charged with all kinds of corruption, whose entire government is in jail now or pending trials for corruption, who’s been pardoned from some of his corruption earlier by the Department of Justice, choosing not to prosecute him despite the evidence being huge.

It was announced this morning that he may be made the new ambassador to Saudi Arabia from the United States in order to get him to stop looking for a reelection because he his votes might go to the other opponent of the Muslim socialist who otherwise is going to become the mayor. That’s an act of desperation. It’s politically grotesque, obviously.

The report, by the way, of this appears in this morning’s New York Times, which is the most prestigious newspaper for such a story to appear in the whole country. So you’re seeing the decision to do this and the decision of those represented by the New York Times to expose it right away as an effort to stop it. Now you see the struggles that are going on here that are very momentous.

Corporate America Reassesses Strategy

I would argue that all of this is a complicated internal network of contradictions and struggles to cope with the decline of the U.S. empire and the rise of what you’re seeing. Look, every company that I know of here in the United States that is engaged in some way or other in international trade, buys from abroad, sells from abroad, has storage facilities abroad or production facilities. Every one of them is urgently rethinking their strategy for the next five or 10 years because the world has changed.

They don’t want to be in a country that either will have heavy tariffs which affect their business, or it will raise them or lower them or delay their implementation or get rid of them. The uncertainty is. And that they don’t think will go away. They know that Mr. Trump is in there for three more years. They know that the support for Mr. Trump is big enough that even if he leaves the scene, whoever comes next.

I’m not saying they will all make decisions in the same way. They won’t. But nothing other than reassessing is going on. If you want evidence that the meeting in Beijing and Shanghai and so on was important, that’s it. Every country, every corporation is trying. What do we do? What is our strategy if these tariffs persist, if they leave, and above all, with the uncertainty that has now been loosed on the world, they may blame Mr. Trump, and no doubt they will.

Global Hostility Toward the United States

That’s a footnote, by the way. Every leader in the world, whatever the economic problems they have, Europe, Asia, Africa, Latin America, they’re all blaming it on Mr. Trump. And there’s enough of a grain of truth that their problems are worsened by the tariff, the sanction, the whatever you have. Mr. Trump has mobilized the most global hostility to the United States as a nation that could be imagined. And we are only at the very beginning of how that plays out.

And every company is wondering about that and trying to figure out, of course they’re suspending. They’ll tell Mr. Trump, “we’re going to invest 800 billion like the EU underlie it, we will invest.” That’s costless, means absolutely nothing. The truth. We have no idea what the role of the United States will be in our future investments because it’s impossible for us to make a rational decision.

So we’ll shut you up by giving you something you can tell your people. Then we’ll see what two, four, six years from now look like. And then we’ll tell you where we’re going to go. And we’re going to hold that over your head, because if you do things we don’t want, we will revisit the commitment and blame you for undoing it. Everybody here knows that.

And it’s the fading of the US Empire is the thrusting bitterly. They don’t like it. Into the hands of the capitalists, a context that is the last thing on earth they want to be confronted with.

The Search for Stability and Alternatives

Yeah, before we wrap up, let me try to explain out of the United States why that contradiction that you summarize well exists. Mr. Trump also, like every corporation and country, is trying to figure out how to play the decline of the American empire. And as I tried to say at the beginning, he’s caught in the contradiction.

On the one hand, he has to make accommodations to slow it down. That’s what he’s trying. And so he will. He’ll meet with Putin, he’ll do things that may surprise you. On the other, he must be the standard bearer for the denial because the mass of people voted for him.

The people who got him into office are the ones who have been hurt over the last 40 years. They’re mostly white male manufacturing workers. And their families and their communities, they really got hurt. They lost their jobs, they lost their income, they lost their security. And their families and their communities were badly damaged. Still are bad by that process, which still goes on.

All right. They want a reversal of the 40 years of history. They literally want America to go backward, “make America great again” says what they want. They want a powerful leader who is strong enough to compel the world to go backwards. 40 years. He cannot survive. Even in the office that he was elected to, he cannot survive if those people lose confidence. He has to be the big tough leader.

They want United states of the 1970s and 80s where they were the global hegemon, or if you like, the 1990s, the unipolar moment that Professor Mearsheimer tells us about. He has to play that role.

The Tough Guy Performance

So when it comes to India, he wants to accommodate something. Could he get Putin to bend a bit more if India stopped buying the oil? He doesn’t want to smash Putin. He wants to work a deal, but he knows he has to squeeze Putin to get it. So, Kenny. So he wants that, but he can’t be seen asking because that violates the denial. He doesn’t need it. He’s punishing Mr. Modi for not. So he reverts to the. And that works here at home. He’s a tough guy.

You know, Putin is the bad guy of the way he’s played in this country. Mr. Trump, despite everything he tried, could not get a revaluation of Putin. And that’s symbolic, too. He’s willing to work with him. He meets with him, brings him to the United States. Symbolically significant. But he then has to cope with his own contradiction by being the tough guy who punishes Mr. Modi.

Because Americans, thinking of Asians as the inferior people, which most of them more or less have in their minds, are very troubled by anything that looks like begging or asking or being in a penitent position. You have to punish them. Look, Mr. Biden was better the few years of difference. He referred to Xi Jinping in public as a “thug.” A thug, you know, a common criminal is what that in American English is what it means. What in the world are you doing?

He had to. He had to be that Persona. Otherwise his handlers would tell him, you know, you just lost 20% of the vote, that you need to stay in office. Everybody here, Trump included, is caught up in the contradictions of a declining empire.

The End Game

Well, I want to thank people like you who have and who organize honest confrontations. It’s not a question of whether I’m right or wrong about this or that point, and that’s true for all your guests. But what’s really. I want to recognize in you is the value of having these kinds of conversations, trying to take a step back from this totality, to be able to say something important about it, rather than simply taking sides and repeating what’s in the media.

Same here. And thank you again for your work.

######## rwt_6 (speech, January 2025) — Wolff turns only
I want to thank all of you. I won’t repeat all the thanks. All the other speakers have done that. You all should be proud that you’re here together because it means that we are here together.

And that’s what everybody’s going to tell you. They’ve already done it. I’ll repeat it at the end. I take as my task here to answer some questions about what the election and the new government coming in on Monday, what it’s going to be doing and why it’s doing it and what we can expect.

And so I want to begin by telling you that partly what I’m going to say is going to upset you. And so I want you to remember that I’m just the messenger. I didn’t make these things happen. But I do want to honestly tell you, if you would like a much more comfortable version of this, then just turn on your television or radio whenever you have a free moment on the toilet, and you can hear the make-believe.

Because we live now in a weird time. Weirder and in different ways from what we were used to. This country is, as Dr. Leon, I keep wanting to call him Wilmer because we’ve gotten to be friends, but as he pointed out, we live in a time of decline.

And then when an empire declines, which is something we hadn’t gone through, because empires don’t decline very often. So, but let me tell you from the history books, a little bit we can tell, it’s not fun to be in a declining empire. Much more fun when the empire is going up, which was the last century or a century and a half of this country, the ride up. We are now on the ride down.

We haven’t been prepared, because we have leaders who cannot say a word about that. I want to just drive that home, because the split in this country is really about that.

A Nation Divided

So let me start with the split in the obvious way. This Monday, we are having a national celebration of two key events. One that you hear about every day, all day, the inauguration of a new president. It’s also the anniversary of the assassination of Martin Luther King. Same day. Wow, how different.

One celebration from the other. Who’s celebrating what? You might say, and you wouldn’t be far wrong, that those celebrating Mr. Trump are probably also celebrating the assassination of Mr. King. And those that are mourning one are likely also mourning the other one of those two events. But it’s a country split between those on the one side of that and those on the other. And that split is everywhere now.

And if you haven’t noticed it yet, you will, because it’s going to impact your life in all kinds of ways.

The Reality of Decline

So one of them, one of them to start, is a little bit about what a declining empire means, just to give you the context. The United States lost the war in Vietnam. When I say that in my classes, my students look at me, they’ve never heard such a thought.

America, as they know from the comic books they read as children, only wins wars. It doesn’t lose wars, but we lost. The war was fought against the Communist Party of North Vietnam, which has been running that country since the United States was driven out in 1975. Go check all of this, you will find I’m not making it up.

After we lost the war in Vietnam, we went and had a big war in Afghanistan, which we also lost. That war was against the Taliban, which now runs that country, which is a good sign that you lost. We lost the war in Iraq. We are in the process of losing the war in Ukraine.

But the split of the country is, if I were in certain audiences, I wouldn’t dare say what I just said, because they couldn’t hear it. They could not hear it. And I wouldn’t be able to get anything else across, so I couldn’t start that way. I’m a teacher. I’m not going to try to lose my audience before I begin. But it is the reality. Let me give you a couple of more just bits of getting what decline means.

The Rise of the BRICS

Last week, something happened on the part of a country called Indonesia. I don’t know if you’re familiar with it. It’s a remarkable country in Asia, made up of 18,000 islands in the Pacific. It’s a huge country. The population of Indonesia is 280 million people, makes it one of the largest countries in the world.

Let me remind you, the population in the United States is 330 million. 280 isn’t that far less than 330. It’s an enormous thing what they did. They joined the BRICS. They joined the full partner of the BRICS. BRICS, by the way, means it’s the first letters of the countries Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa. A dozen years ago, they began to form an alliance of what came to be called the Global South, to be independent, relatively, from the domination of the United States. And the core economy there, the biggest one, the most powerful, is, sorry to tell you this, I know it’ll come as an upset, the People’s Republic of China.

Remember, I’m the messenger. I have no responsibility for this at all. China and the BRICS, Indonesia joined them. Together now, the BRICS, built around China, have as the population of the countries that are part of the BRICS, about 22 countries now altogether, they have about 55 to 60 percent of the population of the world are members.

What is the percentage of the world’s population of the United States?

Four and a half percent. You understand? We are four and a half percent. They are 50 to 60 percent. In the words of, you know, Mickey Mouse, uh-oh. Those odds are not so good, no matter how you cut it. And as a group, let me tell you how you cut it.

We in economics have this little game. We ask, what is the total output in goods and services in a year of a country? Gives us a kind of rough idea of how big a country it is, how important its footprint is in the world. Okay, so if you take the BRICS together now, they are about 35 percent, maybe a bit more, total output of the world.

If you add up each of those countries’ total output in a year, and you add them up, they account for 36 percent, more or less, of the world’s output. Now let’s compare that to the United States and its major allies. Those are called the G7, the group of seven. United States, Japan, Canada, Britain, France, Italy, and Spain, and Britain, excuse me.

Okay, that used to be the dominant player of the world. That used to be what world trade meant, what they did. Together they, that’s all of them, now account for about 28 percent of the world’s output. Do you understand the BRICS is now what the United States was, but is no more.

Now if you’re looking to where the wealth is, you go east, not west. If you’re a poor third world country, as we used to call them, and you need money for a railroad, or you need to find places to sell your exports, you direct your diplomats first to go to Beijing, because that’s where it’s at. If you can’t get a good deal there, well, you might go to London or Washington, but whatever you are doing, you’re going to play them against each other. You’re going to say to the Americans, “Oh, that’s the best you offer? Let’s go the other place, see what they offer.” You want to know why most of the railroads being built in Africa today are being built by the Chinese? There’s your answer. They got a better deal.

Everything is changing because of this, except here, where the make-believe is the way this country is dealing with this. Denial, you know, we ought to ask Dr. Fra to help us with the understanding psychologically. We all know it from our personal lives, right?

When we’ve lost a friend or a lover, and we had to wait until all our friends told us what we couldn’t face ourselves. Well, we are the friends in this country who are being unable to vent. That’s why what Indonesia did last week is something I’m not going to ask how many of you noticed it, because nobody will raise their hand. How could you?

Make-believe made sure that that was not on the newspaper’s front page or in most newspapers on any page ever. How many of you know that the Chinese are now the fast-growing dominant economy in the world? We’re not. We haven’t been for a while.

Every major high-tech firm in this country has an analog, sorry, has an analog in China. When we heard earlier that there was an offer by China and by Russia to work with the United States earlier, which the United States turned down, that’s part of denial. They didn’t just turn it down then, they turned it down now.

The Electric Vehicle Revolution

One more example, and then I’ll stop and tell you what this all means. 15 years ago, every automobile company on this planet went to work trying to develop what they understood was the next wave in that business, which was putting aside the gasoline-powered car and substituting an electric-operated car or truck. By the way, not a rational response, because it’s terribly wasteful to have that vehicle, which those of you who have it notice, sits on the street or in the garage most of its life. That’s kind of, let’s use a fundamental word, stupid. It’s stupid.

It’s a waste of resources. That car could serve 20 people each day if it were managed properly. What do I mean managed properly? Well, like a car rental business, that’s how they would manage that.

Or those bicycles we can now just take off the rack and put back on. That’s a rational way. If you want to avoid killing people, which private cars do, if you want to avoid air pollution, cars are the major cause of it, and on and on. Rational would be to go from the private car to a mass transit efficient system.

A beautiful train every five minutes, a beautiful bus, even more beautiful, every three minutes, everywhere. That’s it. Infinitely cheaper, much more efficient. And none of you have to worry about it, because wherever it’s parked in the central lots, which we call car rental centers, there would be paid mechanics who make sure they’re in proper condition.

So the car would be in better shape, better cared for. The whole thing is nuts. And who is the person who invented this crazy bad solution to the fuel burning car? That genius who did this terrible thing, Elon Musk.

That’s what he did. He found the way that automobile companies could make a profit by taking us out of gas cars into electric cars. So 15 years ago, all the electric, all the car companies said, hooray, here’s how we hold on to our profits by making these private cars for everybody. And they all went to work to compete.

And there was a winner. As of three years ago, one company figured out how to make the best quality electric cars and trucks at the lowest price. This is what competition is supposed to result. And I’m sure you all know the name of this company. It’s the BYD Corporation. Let me do that again. B as in boy, Y as in yellow, D as in dog. BYD.

Now your faces give you away. You never heard of this place or this thing. What is it? Well, what did I just tell you? They won the competition for the entire new wave of cars and trucks moving across this planet every day by the millions. And you never heard of them. Why? Because they move everywhere except to you.

If you go to Europe right now, you’ll see them all over the roads. BYD. And by the way, other, there’s several Chinese car companies. They’re not the only one. They’re just the ones who did it best. Why don’t you see them? Because we have a tariff started by Mr. Trump, raised by Mr. Biden. The tariff on the Chinese electric vehicles is 100 percent. So let me explain quickly what that means.

The Chinese produce this wonderful thing, this electric vehicle, and let’s take a simple number. $30,000 is what they cost for the car. You’re an American. You need, therefore, to come up with $30,000 if, for example, you’re a company that uses electric trucks to do part of your business. It’s an input.

You’d have to come up with $30,000 to get the truck. And then you’d have to pay 100 percent. Another $30,000 will go into Uncle Sam, Uncle Sam, who put the tariff. Tariff is just a word for a tax. It’s a word for a tax on an imported good or service, something that’s produced out of the country but brought in here for sale. That’s what an import is. And tariff is the name of the tax you put on imports. We have been putting taxes on imports as a nation from the beginning, although throughout the history of the country, nothing new about it.

But it’s 100 percent, which means an American would have to buy that truck by giving China $30,000 for the truck, and Uncle Sam another $30,000, and so with $60,000 you get the truck. But of course no one does that. Why? Because Ford and General Motors and Tesla will sell you an electric car or truck for a mere $40,000 or $50,000 or something like that.

So who’s helped by this? Ford and General Motors, they wouldn’t be able to sell their crappy cars otherwise. We would none of us buy a $40,000 or $50,000 electric car if we’re going to do that, and give BYD $30,000 for a better car rather than $40,000 or $50,000 to General Motors, however patriotic we might feel. And you know who knows it?

Ford and General Motors. So they went to the president and they said, put that tariff there. It’ll protect us. Of course they didn’t say our profits, which is the truth. It’ll protect jobs. Whenever you hear a capitalist tell you about what they’re doing to protect jobs, hold on to your wallet. Someone’s reaching. Why is it false?

Because this is a terrible act for most American producers. Think of yourself as a maker of shirts or chairs or software programs. You would like to buy the trucks you need to bring in your inputs to sell and distribute your outputs. You’re going to have to buy electric trucks.

You’d like to buy the best one at the lowest price. Of course, you’re competing with enterprises in France and in Germany and in Brazil and in Nigeria and fill in the blank. They’re all buying BYD cars at $30,000. You have to pay $40,000 or $50,000 to General Motors.

You know what that means? They’re going to defeat you economically. You’re going to be a loser. And when you lose, you’re going to lay off your workers because you can’t compete with the companies that can buy the biggest, the best, and the cheapest electric vehicle.

Now multiply this by dozens of other commodities. China is winning. We are losing. Don’t tell anyone.

The Decline of an Empire

Because you live in a country which is pretending to itself that none of this is going on. It’s either never discussed or we turn it around and we say the Chinese are becoming aggressive in the world. They’re doing what exactly we did. You know how the United States became a big, powerful country? By doing to Europe what the Chinese are doing to us. It’s not new. It’s not different. The only question is why would it be surprising?

What a strange behavior is going on here. Now where is this taking us? And I have a few things and that’s all I really want to tell you. Mr. Trump is a problem. You’ve probably already noticed that. One of the ways he’s a problem is that he has come this far as a politician. He had a different life before.

It’s known as a playboy. So he went from a New York playboy to a national politician, maybe even an international politician. And he did it in one basic way. He understood, maybe it’s not clear, he understood that America was in such trouble that the mass of people here were remarkably alienated from the conventional Republican and Democratic parties.

They didn’t feel those parties were doing much for them, which is true. That those parties weren’t protecting them from a decline they couldn’t quite pinpoint, but they felt, particularly over the last 30 years, their budgets were squeezed. You might have noticed that 40 years ago the level of household debt in this country was small. Nowadays, everybody is loaded with debt.

I can add, if you’re interested, that corporate debt is at a higher level than it’s ever been in our country, and government debt. In other words, we are a country in debt on a scale we didn’t imagine 10 years ago, let alone think we would have now. There’s a name for companies that have been for several years so deeply in debt that they don’t make enough profit, ready, to service their debt. That is to pay the interest and the portion they have to repay.

Zombie Corporations and National Debt

Now we have a special name in economics for them. I kid you not, I didn’t make this up. Zombie corporations, because they’re dead. They’re economically defunct.

You know how they manage to survive when their profits aren’t enough to cover their debts? They take on more debt to pay the debt they couldn’t otherwise cover. Uh-oh, that makes them more zombie-ish next year than they were this year, which is what’s happening. You might wonder, who lends money to all these indebted people, businesses, and government?

Well, let me start with the government, because if you thought the world was crazy before, wait till you get this. The two biggest creditors of the United States government are Japan and China. Japan number one, China number two. A few years ago, it was the other way. China was number one, Japan was number two. The United States is the biggest debtor country in the world, by countries. The second biggest creditor of the United States is the biggest debtor, is the People’s Republic of China. Do you understand?

The United States owes China 850 billion dollars, roughly. It has to pay interest, of course, on that debt like it has to pay on others, which means I’m here to tell you that a portion of the taxes every one of you in this room pays when you buy a bottle of beer, or you smoke a cigarette, or you pay your taxes, a portion of that money, you should be very pleased, is collected by the United States government, not used for houses, or medical care, or student loans, but shipped to China as interest on the debt to enable them to build their military capacity to fight the United States. Hello, I didn’t make this up. On the other hand, think of it this way.

These kinds of loans from Japan, from China, enable the United States government to spend all the money Dr. Leon told us about in Ukraine without having to tax us, because you know what would bring the war in Ukraine to an end in about 10, maybe 11 seconds? If Americans had to pay for it, but we don’t. The Chinese and the Russian, and China by the way, supports Russia against Ukraine, but lends government money to the United States, which pays for the Ukrainians.

Whoa. You think you ought to pay respect to a system working like this? Think. We are in a completely different world than we once were.

The Shifting Global Power

The empire is declining. We are not strong. We are weak. We don’t produce the bulk of the world’s output. We don’t control the bulk of the world’s trade. The U.S. dollar, which in 1950s, 60s, 70s, was the global currency dominating all others, isn’t anymore.

Central banks around the country, which used to hold dollars as backing for their own currencies in their own countries, because the dollar was as good as gold, it isn’t anymore. So the dollar from being 70, 80 percent of the reserves held by central banks is now about 40 percent. Still important. We’re still in a big industrial power, but nothing is as important as the nothing like we were.

Now, Mr. Trump understood that in this changing world, Americans were being squeezed, and he was right about that. And you should understand that we’re still in that situation, and Mr. Trump is president because of it.

Here’s how it works. Every empire, as it goes down, has the following procedure of handling it. The people at the top, the rich and the powerful, respond to the decline by saying, oh, this is terrible, but not for me. But not for me.

The top always offloads the difficulties and burdens of a decline onto those people less powerful and less rich than themselves. The emperor in Rome didn’t suffer the way the average people did. The emperor in Persia or the emperor in Greece, it doesn’t matter. All the empires show the same phenomena. Those at the top hold on, work harder than they used to hold on, because they know damn well it’s going down. And who can’t do that are the people who don’t have much power and the people who don’t have much wealth. And so the working class has to be, one way or another, squeezed as you go down. And we, you, me, we’re all being squeezed.

And in our naivete, we turn to the Republican and Democratic parties that protect us. They can’t. Oh, they’ll tell you whatever you want to hear. You know that. We live in that. But they can’t do anything. Because the only real thing to do would be to say honestly to the people, our empire is going down. It’s going to be a hard thing. And maybe we all ought to get together to try to get through this difficulty together. Oh, that would be an interesting idea. We’d have a name like, I don’t know, socialism. That would be rational.

But we don’t live rational. How do you squeeze the mass of people? A lot of ways. It’s a little bit like that famous poem, you know, how do I love you? Let me count the ways. How am I going to screw the working class? Let me count the ways. So for 40 or 50 years, we make sure that unions can’t function.

They can’t do what they were invented to do, help the workers get a better deal. Not going to get that. We’re going to demonize unions. We’re going to make every union look like it’s, you know, that movie on the waterfront, a bunch of crooks that are grabbing your dues every week, etc., etc. You’ve been living your life in that kind of an environment. It’s changed the last few years as working people begin to get it. And they are.

That’s part of what this meeting is a sign of. Beginning. The Starbucks workers are beginning and the Amazon workers are beginning. The labor movement is kind of coming back to life. But it’s coming late in the process of squeezing the working class. Here’s another way you squeeze the working class. You have this thing which you say is some kind of mystery. It’s called an inflation.

The Reality of Inflation

So what? An inflation sounds like something you do to a balloon. What is it inflation? In economics it just means prices are going up. But now let’s be a little bit more careful. If you know anything about the inflation of the last few years, here’s a little statistic. The inflation has gone up faster than average wages and salaries of people. Okay, now I’m going to do this very difficult arithmetic.

If for the money you have to spend, your wages and salaries are not going up as fast as the prices, they’re going to be things you can’t afford anymore. You know, really special expensive things like eggs. Right? What? But will someone honestly tell you that the inflation is a way of squeezing the work? Not. You look long and hard. You won’t get it. The inflation of eggs is due to bird flu. Huh? What? What?

Look, I’m talking to people. I’m not going to be mean. But half of you believe that. And the other half of you think it might be true. Here’s what an inflation is. It’s a decision made by some people to jack up the price you have to pay for the things they can control the prices of. Who sets prices in a capitalist economy? Answer. The employer. Those of you who have had jobs all your life as workers, do you ever recall being called into an office to add your opinion as to what the price should be of what you help to produce? Never happened. The United States census tells us 3% of Americans are employers.

Welcome to the other 97%. That’s you and me. The employers set the prices. We pay them. When they jack up the price, that’s because they want to give us fewer of whatever it is they make for the money we have to give them. It’s a way of screwing the working class. And that’s how it’s been used in the last few years. And all these economics professors, including many of mine, and people I know, sit around debating how are we going to control the inflation?

What is it? How does it happen? I sit there. I’m one of their students. And I really want to run up there and hit them over the head with a ping pong paddle. What are you doing? What is this noise coming out of your mouth? And then their decision, which really at this point, I hope I’m getting to you, you’re getting upset.

Their decision is we’re going to deal with it by raising interest rates. Oh, wow. This is wonderful. Who gets screwed when you raise an interest rate? In case you’re not rich yourself, I’m going to tell you, it’s not rich people. They don’t give a flying, boom, boom. Whether the interest rate is 2%, 6%, they’re rich. That’s what it means to be rich.

You don’t care. But you have to care because it’s going to mean that little bit of money at the end of the month that you have to pay on your credit card is going to be bigger than it was before. And everything works like that. The rich don’t care. You know what that’s like? It’s like, I’m going to stick it to you now for a moment, congestion pricing. Oh, good. We have a problem in New York with traffic.

This should come as hot news since it’s only been true for a century. And we’re going to finally do something. Oh, really? Yeah, what? We’re going to tax everybody the same. What? The same. A rich person who will not give a damn and the poor person for whom this adds up as an extra buck or two every time you do something, if you have to come in and out of Manhattan, etc., etc. Only an American politician who’s just seen what inflation has done to people would come up with that solution. And by the way, raising interest rates, because I can see it perked some of your interest, is that the only way to deal with an inflation? Of course not.

Why did you ever think it? Answer, because that’s what you were fed all the time in all the media. The last time the United States had an inflation as bad as the one a couple years ago was back in the late 70s and 80s. We had funded the war in Vietnam by printing a lot of money, because otherwise the people would have revolted against it if you’d said that everybody were having a war in Vietnam is going to cost every family a couple thousand a year.

Whip, end of war. So we borrowed. We printed money and we borrowed. And then we had the terrible inflation.

Nixon’s Wage-Price Freeze

And then a conservative Republican president, Richard Nixon, went on the television, August 15, 1971, and said, “I’m going to do something about this terrible inflation.” Oh, good. There was tremendous suffering in the country and a lot of pressure. And put that together with the problems with the war.

He had to do something. So he declared a wage-price freeze that day, 15th of August. As of tomorrow morning, he said, this conservative Republican president who became president by becoming the champion of anti-communism. As of tomorrow morning, he said, any business that raises its prices, we will come for you, we will arrest you, and you go to jail.

Guess what? The next morning, inflation vanished. Amazing. Are you surprised? Shouldn’t be. Is this a story about how you control an inflation? Yeah. Did it work? Yeah. Did it happen in the United States? Yeah. Do you know about it? No. No. And the people at the Federal Reserve who decide interest rates, they made sure not to ask about it, not to talk about it, not to debate it.

World War II Economic Strategy

Let me give you another example, because I think I’ve perked some of your interest. In the early 1940s, the United States decided to enter and fight World War II. And the economists, who, by the way, included a significant number of Marxists and socialists, because in the 1940s, they would be hired by President Roosevelt at the time, because they were considered the most reliable anti-Nazis, anti-fascists. So people like Galbraith, whose name you may know, Paul Sweezy, Harry Magdoff, people, very important people on the left of American economics, were working in Washington.

And they went to Roosevelt, and they said, “Okay, you’ve got a problem. You’re about to fight a war. You’re going to move all these resources, factories, railroads, to work on a war, to supply the army, supply the navy, and fight a war. And those resources are, therefore, not going to be available to produce food, clothing, shelter, consumer goods. So we’re going to have a shortage of consumer goods, since we’re using these resources, a large number of them, to fight a war.”

And here’s the problem with that, President. If there’s a shortage of goods for the mass of people, who presumably will still want to buy underpants, and shoes, and coasters, and all the other things of life, with a shortage, we’ve got a problem. And the President said, “Well, what’s our problem?” He said, “The market system.”

The President was confused. He said, “I thought we were supposed to be for that.” “Yeah, but we can’t afford it in a war.” “Why not?” They had to explain to him, just like I’m doing now with you. If there’s a sudden shortage, then there won’t be enough toasters, or ice cream cones, or fill in the blank. And you know what happens in a market economy, when there’s scarcity of goods? The people with the money offer more.

You’ll come with your dollar to the ice cream vendor in the park, and you’ve got your two little kids with you, and you want to buy them an ice cream cone, and you hand them two bucks for the two cones, and he looks at you and says, “I only got four cones left.” And before you can respond, the person next to you, who you can tell by his outfit, is much better healed than you are, says, “I’ll offer you five dollars for each cone.” Guess who gets the cones?

If you have a shortage, a market system is a system that allocates whatever is scarce to the people with the most money. Those of you who think of yourself as moral or ethical ought to think about why you support a market system that does what I just said. Really? That’s what you want? You want to live in an economy that distributes whatever is scarce to people with the most money?

You know what that means? It means that the little bit of milk will be purchased at a high price by the nice, rich couple who gives it to their cat. But it will not be affordable to the poor couple who needs it for their children. It’s how the market works, Jack.

You’re supposed to love the market. You’re supposed to believe it’s efficient. It never was. That is, that kind of argument is what we in academia call bullshit.

Trump’s Rise to Power

But it works. Mr. Trump has become president because he knew that the mass of the American people were being squeezed and that the conventional Republicans and Democrats weren’t doing squat about it. And he said, “I’m different. Watch me. I’m going to call all Mexicans rapists. I’m going to be outrageous. I’m going to say the things that were quoted earlier.”

“I’m going to be a misogynist, not quietly and under the table, the way it’s usually done, but big and loud and open. All about it. Watch me. I’ll say all those racist and other things that other politicians believe, but know, have learned. Don’t say that, or at least don’t say it in public.” Um, and he, he, he convinced American, a lot of them, not all, but a lot of them. He’s different. And when you’ve got two parties that aren’t doing anything for you, and you’re feeling very squeezed, you give your vote to somebody different.

After all, why not? The Democrats had the equivalent. You all know his name, Bernie. He was the different on the other end. The politician who, for the first time in half a century, didn’t run away from the name socialist. Had he run, he would have picked up that same different. Maybe let’s go with him. But the Democrats shut down their only chance and look at them.

They suffered the results. Mr. Trump, there’s no reason for any of us to imagine he’s going to change. He’s going to be Mr. Different. That’s what he does. And you can already see it. You can see it in what, what he did to Mr. Netanyahu. Bye-bye. Bye-bye, Mr. Netanyahu. Your life is probably over, career almost certainly. For those of you who don’t understand it, it’s again American craziness. The Israelis made a decision to hitch their wagon with the United States. They made that decision many years ago.

The Israel-Palestine Conflict

Fateful decision. Good in the short run, a disaster in the long run. And that disaster has now come full circle. They’re identified in the whole world as a complicit partner in what was done in Gaza.

The Israelis went into Gaza to defeat and destroy Hamas. Didn’t work. To defeat or eject the Palestinian people didn’t work. And all that happened two days ago was a decision by the United States, upon which it depends, to cut its relationship with a losing proposition. It’s ugly all around. It will not save the United States from being identified as complicit with all that happened there. And the books and articles and documentaries about it will be with us for the next generation. And Hamas, it will inherit the rage and the fury of two and a half million residents of Gaza who have watched their mother, their father, their children.

The young people that are coming are going to be a much greater danger to Israel than the old Hamas ever was. This is a disaster. And most of the world sees it. That’s why the boats in the UN are lopsided. 150 countries on the side of the Palestinians, 25 abstentions of the United States, Israel, and the Canary Islands. I mean, it is silly. It’s a silly spectacle. But that’s another sign of a country going down.

The Ukraine Conflict

Last example, Ukraine. The problems in Ukraine begin with the dissolution of the Soviet Union back in 1989-1990. Ukraine, a major part of what used to be the Soviet Union, particularly important in grain growing, very, very rich soil, so forth. A lot of finagling of the countries of the West, NATO moving eastward, threatening Russia and all that.

I won’t bore you with the re-history. And then to stop what was happening after NATO took over in Poland and Czechoslovakia and all the rest, Mr. Putin and the Russians said, no, not Ukraine, not the eastern part of Ukraine, which is majority Russian, Russian speaking, Russian language, Russian culture, and so on. And the United States says, “Oh, oh, good, you invaded. That’s a bad thing. We can mobilize the whole world around the bad thing of a big country invading a little country.” That sounds good. That was already a mistake.

Because what was Afghanistan? A big country invading a little poor country. What was Vietnam? A big country invading the position of the United States as going to war around the principle of a big country shouldn’t invade a little country.

Sounds a little hollow coming from the United States, except, of course, here, where the denial is the governing spirit of the country. Just like we’re going to be denying on Monday, the Martin Luther King Association, while we talk endlessly about the Donald Trump Association. So the war. And the United States decides to go in front and round up the usual Europeans to go with you.

Okay. How do you fight the war? And this goes to something said before, and I want to conclude with. The United States is caught in the decline, discovering that the decline trumps everything else. And I don’t mean to be clever by using the word trumps. The nuclear weapons of the United States are useless. The enormity of them, useless. Why? Because if you dared use them in new trade, the other side has them too. And we’ll use them. And that made that quite clear. So you can’t, because it’s self-destructive.

So that’s out. But what do you have? Conventional warfare. But then you’ve got another problem. The Russians are better equipped for that than you are. The Russians also have a history. In case you’re not familiar with this, Napoleon thought he could defeat Russia. He couldn’t. Hitler thought he could defeat Russia. He couldn’t. Invading Russia has turned out to be, or fighting Russia, a really bad idea. But the United States, used to fighting such powerhouses as the poorest countries on earth, Vietnam, Afghanistan, didn’t make the adjustment.

So it can’t fight. It realized that within months. So it came up with the great plan, the genius of Mr. Blinken, or Jake Sullivan, or other people who I hope whose names mean nothing to you. Because they sure mean nothing historically. Here’s what their great strategy was. A war of sanctions. Oh, we will get the Russians. We will, I’m now quoting President Biden, reduce the ruble to rubble. Somebody with poetic genius gave him that one. The ruble will become rubble and Russia will fall to its knees. Wonderful images right up there with Mickey and and other mouses in the American consciousness.

And they did. They stopped the Europeans, if you know the story, stopped buying oil and gas from Russia, which is a major export of the Russian economy. That would cripple Russia. It was the idea. Problem. Russia is part of the BRICS. And the Russians went to the Chinese and the Indians and said they won’t buy our oil and gas. We need to sell the oil and gas. How about you buy our oil and gas? “Done,” said Mr. Modi. “Done,” says Xi Jinping.

And thereby the American strategy went, along with everything else, into the toilet. Didn’t work. Total failure. Russian rubles? Fine. Russian economy, in case you don’t know, has grown faster over the last two years than the American economy has, which should surprise no one. Because remember how we as a nation got out of difficult economic times known as the Great Depression? We went to war in World War II.

We took half our unemployed people and put them in uniform. And we took the other half of the unemployed and gave them jobs and make them a uniform. And that’s how we did it. Turns out war can help solve economic problems.

The Limits of Political Influence

We should have known because that’s what we did. But we couldn’t imagine it. These failures of imagination, these are the signs of economic powerful decline. So if you really want to understand where we are, it doesn’t depend on anything Mr. Trump does. That’s the important thing to understand. Don’t get caught up in that. Mr. Biden’s influence on the economic conditions of our society are marginal. Mr. Trump said his first presidency were marginal. Most of the things he boasted about he couldn’t do.

He built a wall, you know, along the Mexican border. More Mexicans came, not fewer. That was a hundred percent bust. Right? Now he’s proposing, as you probably know, and I’ve heard as I was coming over here today, that ICE is going to be raiding the cities across America and throwing people into Mexico. Yeah, he may do some of that. Maybe he’ll do a lot of it. Who knows?

He doesn’t know. He, you know, he talks however he feels, moment to moment, like certain jerks we all know. Right? What difference does it make?

The Potential Impact on Mexico

If he actually does it, if he actually takes the 10 to 15 undocumented immigrants in the United States and puts them into Mexico, we’re going to have meetings like this only it’s going to be about Mexico. Mexico lives off the remittances, the money earned by Mexican people here that they’re sending back to their mother, their father, their children back home. And that flow of money is an absolute blessing to Mexico. It doesn’t have to sell anything.

It doesn’t have to export anything. It just gets the money shipped by its expatriates here. Imagine that suddenly gets stopped because they’re not here anymore. They lost their job and they were deported back to Mexico. But it gets worse. They’re arriving in Mexico at a time when Mr. Trump is threatening them or hitting them with tariffs, which is killing the market Mexico had in the United States, its biggest buyer of its output, including many automobiles made by Ford and General Motors in Mexico for export here. Those goods are not going to be able to come in here without a tariff, which means we’re not going to be buying them, which means the Mexicans are going to be laying people off.

When? When the money from remittances isn’t coming and the millions are coming looking for the work that will not be there. You know what that’s going to make out of Mexico? A disaster that’s going to remind everyone else of the sad country of Haiti.

A disaster of gangs and American tourism there. Bye-bye. That’s the kind of chaos that’s coming out of the denial. The war in Ukraine is lost because the Russians can fight forever.

And for those of you who pay attention, you may have noticed, you should have, that the Russian army is many, many miles into Ukraine. It’s very clear who’s winning and very clear who’s losing except here. So my parting final words. Most of what’s about to happen is not about Mr. Trump or what he does or doesn’t do. His capacity for saying one thing and doing another is already legendary. You don’t need me to remind you of it. But whatever he in fact does is marginal.

Global Influences and Domestic Response

Most of what is going to happen to you and me is going to depend on two things. One, what the rest of the world does as it watches and navigates the decline of the American empire. So it’s actually more important what Xi Jinping and Mr. Modi and Lula in Brazil and so forth and so on.

And that remarkable woman who’s now the head of Mexico, who has her work cut out for her. She has a very famous Hispanic name. Scheinbaum is her name. But she’s the one to watch because what she does faced with what I’ve just described to you, that’s going to be powerful, whatever it is.

So it’s the outside that’s going to affect us more than our own political leaders because we don’t have the power and they don’t anymore. Plus we are so lost in denial that we don’t know what we’re doing. That’s why we miscalculated in Ukraine. They’re out of touch, not just with the American people, but with the world reality.

Watch them. This morning I read a story in a major American financial newspaper about the International Monetary Fund saying that the United States would grow 2.7 percent in the year 2024 and thereby lead the world economy. I couldn’t believe it. It’s so gross. By the way, the number is correct. 2.7 percent is what the IMF has now said, but that’s not leading the world economy. That’s lousy. Chinese growth this year will be five percent and the Indian growth will be seven.

The United States isn’t leading anything except here in its own weird mentality. And what’s the other thing, the second thing, beside the outside dominating the inside? It’s you. And that has been said by both of my fellow speakers. We are the unknown. Will the American people allow themselves to be the ones who get screwed as this empire passes? It’s the same question that the British working class had to face when the British empire collapsed over the last century. We, whether women building up or formerly incarcerated people, will they get together?

Will they make movements? Will they make demands? Would they make coalitions with one another to realize those demands? That’s the wild card everywhere. By the way, there are think tanks all over America that are asking the same question. They’re worried. Is the labor movement waking up in a way that could change all of this? People were being worked at unbelievable stress in Amazon warehouse for years or in Starbucks coffee shops for years.

But in the last two or three years, enough is enough, no more, we’re gonna, we’re gonna. That remarkable group, Chris Smalls and folks out there in Staten Island, that’s a remarkable and has had effects everywhere else. The Boeing workers on the West Coast rejected three contracts before they accepted the one that they found, which was better than the ones that they had rejected. The labor movement, that’s the question.

The Importance of Collective Action

That’s why this meeting and that’s why this building and that’s why these efforts and that’s why the speakers are really very, very important. If this gives you a swell head, that’s my point. It is more in your hands than you think of, because in addition to saving yourselves, if it’s a time of decline, if the people who run this society are so busy denying it, refusing to face it, as I’ve tried to show you, then we are stronger than we might suspect and they are weaker than they might feel confident about, and that’s a good time for us to act. The conditions are pretty good, not terrible, as some of my fellow leftists are worrying about.

Of course, we have problems and difficulties, I don’t, I’m not pretending otherwise, but we also have an historical moment. I was having a conversation with one of you in the audience just before I made my speech, and she pointed out quite rightly that the old Cold War mentality, that everything to the left is evil, bad, won’t work, is dead. That generation died and took it with them. Young people today don’t have that mentality.

They’re much more open to what it is. If anything that I have said strikes you as reasonable and logical, linked together, and makes a point, then you might take some comfort in knowing that this is what I say. I do radio, television, advertise, appearances every day. We have 450,000 subscribers to our YouTube subscribers to our YouTube channel.

The audience, for what I have to say, is enormous, and these are people who are not offended or disgusted or anything else. The questions we get from email are all perfectly reasonable questions that people have about something they disagree with or something they, you know, want more information about. So we shouldn’t worry. This country is split.

This is not a Trump country. This is a country in split, and when the leaders recognize it and they come up with plans and gimmicks to make us think we’re all together, like suggesting that we suddenly reverse course and reacquaint ourselves with colonialism, we are going to snatch Greenland, and we’re going to take back the Panama Canal, and we’re going to make Canada the 50th. But careful, this is Mr. Trump articulating the tough guy in charge.

That’s what he’s, that’s what’s gone. So since you can’t do it, bullshit about it, and that’s his plan, but that’s not much. So thank you for your attention, but the most important thing is to do what all of the speakers, every one of them, stress. Build on what you got.

Take advantage of this wonderful location of the people you’ve already gathered. Work with us, with everybody else. That’s what, that’s what can make an enormous difference at this time, and it couldn’t be that we needed it more. Thank you.

######## hw_the-last-colonial-wars (Nima Alkhorshid, with Hudson, 28 May 2026) — Wolff turns only
Well, I don’t understand how anyone can take this seriously anymore. It’s crystal clear what’s going on. Michael makes it clear again. We’ve tried to do that on this program repeatedly. Mr. Trump has threatened to obliterate to back to the stone age. Come on, this is who we have here. Absolutely. There is no more law of the sea. One of the reasons we’ve talked about the summary execution of men in boats around Venezuela and Latin America for six months now. I believe it’s over 200 people killed. No trial, no jury, no boarding. Nothing. What used to be the practice of the Navy, because that was international law, has now been completely ignored. No one can make a case that Venezuela threatened the United States or that those fishing boats thousand miles away were a danger to the United States. None of them had ever come here and done any damage ever.

So it’s a joke. It’s not serious. It’s like the president sitting there and saying, No one’s going to control it. We’ll be watching over it. As if the world doesn’t understand that when America watches over it, that’s what the control is. Who could be so stupid at this point not to see the man is telling us because he’s crude and doesn’t know how to cover it over in clever Ivy League language? He’s crude, which is useful because then you got it. There it is. You let us overlook it or we’ll blow you up. Okay, got it.

The interesting question is whether the world is now ready, ready to say no, to say to the United States, it’s over. Your empire is not there anymore. It’s not that you can shift from using a rules-based international order to cover over your empire. That’s gone. It’s gone because you decided, you the Americans, to do by brute force what you couldn’t do the way you did it in the second half of the 20th century, mostly peacefully by threatening, by sanctioning, by manipulation. You can’t. You have to come and hit people over the head and blow them up. All right?

Then the question is, and look, I think everybody watching this program knows what I’m about to say. Because it’s the real question we all have, isn’t it? Are Russia and China and Iran and others opposed to all of this, ready, willing, and able to stop it? That’s what’s being tested now. Nothing else. Nothing else.

All of these negotiations, it’s very nice. They may work. You may get a deal, but it’ll be as deeply rooted as the deal that ended the attack by Israel and the United States on Iran one year ago. Here we are again. And we will be here a year from now again, no matter what happens. If they agree to something, they don’t agree. Who are we fooling?

Look at Mr. Hegset. We have to be blessed. Here again is another one of these knives that’s far from the sharpest one in the drawer. And so he explains how the very possibility that they may be interested in atomic weapons. Okay, but that applies to everybody. The leaders of Malaysia or Nigeria or Panama could be imagining at some point to get nuclear weapons. Are we going to go there too? And the answer is, of course we are. That’s what we do. That’s what we’ve been doing a long time.

So the question is, what’s shaping this? And so let me offer an answer to my question. I believe we are watching the final gasps of life of colonialism. Yes, we live in an era of anti-colonialism. For the last century, the old empires of Britain and France and Germany and Holland and Japan and Spain and Portugal have all at varying rates and in varying ways been undone. They’re over.

All right? We are witnessing the three efforts to somehow do it again. And here they are. Israel is trying to settler colonize the areas around it. Straight out 17th century colonialism, but it’s several centuries too late when a world is organized against it. And that’s why it is so brutal.

Number two, Europe, who is fading out of its five centuries in the sun and becoming the afterthought. Once you have America, once you have China, oh, yeah, there’s Europe. But Europe is out of it. In the realm of modern high-tech, irrelevant. In the realm of modern high finance, virtually so. What is Europe doing in its decline? A desperate act of colonial expansion. Where? Eastern Europe. That’s why they had to move NATO from where it was and take all of those countries that used to be the Warsaw Pact, having basically promised not to do that. But they did it. And now their dream is Ukraine. And the Russians are saying, no, we’re not. The Russians are stopping the colonialism of Western Europe the way Hezbollah is stopping the colonialism of Israel. Or for that matter, the Palestinians in Gaza, Lord knows how they survived there.

And now the last one, the last one. The last one is the United States. That’s what all this Iran war, snatching Mr. Maduro from Venezuela, killing the fishermen in the boats. What’s going on here? We have a president who gets up and says, I’m going to take Greenland, Panama, Canada is going to become a 51st state. I’m bombing Nigerian Christians. What? This is another crazy effort to solve the problems of this culture and this economy by returning three centuries to colonial. We’re snatching other parts of the world. You notice it? Three efforts at colonialism, three pushbacks.

And Iran is in the news right now because their ability to push back has become the focal point in the way that Russia in Ukraine and I’m not justifying invading other countries, but I do take seriously that what Russia did has an explanation other than some fantasy of projecting onto Russia an expansion it does not want and it does not need. I want to remind people, in case it’s an issue, Russia is the largest country on this planet by geography. They have every resource imaginable and once they can really do a proper study, which they haven’t done, they will define all the rest of them. If it’s under the surface of this planet, it’s under Russia in all likelihood. By the way, they have enormous reserves of oil and gas, as everybody who pays attention knows. And they will have rare earths and all the rest of it. They don’t they have an exploitable hinterland. They haven’t begun to do all that can be done there. They don’t need a war. They don’t need a population that will be pushing against them night and day. Look at the problem they have in Ukraine. You think they want to multiply that in other parts of the world? This is silly, but it is a necessary fable.

And we are dealing now with people that are out of control in fable creation. And nor is that a psychological issue merely. They are caught, and this is the wisdom of Michael’s choice of words. It’s a dead end. It’s an impossibility. There is nothing here. What’s to negotiate? Give us our money, give us our Strait of Hormuz, give us our peace, our freedom, our ability to function. None of which the United States is willing to do. You have to live with the uncertainty. We and the Israelis may come next week, next month. What?

But that’s the reality. There is nothing to negotiate. When you’re finished with your negotiations, if you do, and you all sign them, if you do, you will then go home. And what, in fact, will you have? And the answer is nothing. You don’t know what will happen next week, next month. If the political winds change in the United States, then the government will decide to bomb Iran, not because of Iran, not because of the nuclear work that they do or the tolls. Those are not the issues. The government here can’t survive if it loses the warmongers among the Republicans. End of conversation.

That’s what makes this happen. The big issues they have to deal with. The economies that are driven to do what Israel, the United States, and NATO are doing are economies that are in deep trouble. Look at them. Their growth rates are going nowhere. Their position in the world shrinking by the day.

There’s a feminist, if I have her right, with the name Keynes, which, of course, if you’re an economist, you know the name Keynes. And she writes for the Financial Times. And she has an editorial saying to the Europeans, I believe it yesterday or today: look, we’re all making fun of Mr. Trump and we don’t like him. But Europe’s only salvation is to do the same thing with tariffs and with trade wars. She’s the author, by the way, of a book called How to Win a Trade War.

That’s what’s left. That’s what’s left. Imperial expansion into Eastern Europe, try to create a colonial place where you can rip those local people off for a few decades. You can’t do it anymore the way you once did in Africa and Asia, Latin America. That door is closing. Open an East European one. And otherwise hold back because, and she’s, by the way, honest about it, because China is finishing us off. That’s not a quote, but in effect, what she says. So, Europe has to follow Donald Trump. That’s what they’re doing anyway. As he kicks them, so they become more followers.

You know, in psychology, you recognize that for severe mental illness, usually brought on by trauma. We have a trauma. It’s the end of the American empire, which is a traumatic experience for the people living through it who try desperately to deny it. And the denial, as all psychologists will tell you, denying your trauma only makes it worse.

Well, it’s a measure, and I mean this in all seriousness, it’s a measure of the end of an empire. One of the signs of the end of an empire is leaders chosen as a kind of way of not facing your problems. Their job, and look at Mr. Trump. I’m going to make America great again. What is he talking about? He’s correct. He’s talking to the nerve that recognizes in the United States that we’re not great anymore. We’re not. They kind of get it. Americans aren’t stupid. They get it. They read the paper. They get it.

But they don’t want to see it in the historic meaning that it has. That’s terrifying because what that means is that their very good past is behind them. And what’s coming is a deterioration. This has to be negated. If you pay attention, each president who’s elected here gives a speech, usually the day that he’s elected, about how he’s the president who’s going to show the American people that our best days are ahead of us. That has to be said because they aren’t and that the people know they aren’t.

But what they want is what we call cheerleaders, people who jump up and down and say what you wish were the reality. You’re voting for somebody who talks like that. You know why? Because at church on Sunday, the nice minister says, wouldn’t it be nice if there were peace in the world rather than war? And everybody goes, yes, it would be. Then they go back to their regular lives where they are doing everything that makes for war. But on Sunday morning, they want to hear, and they really want to hear it, and they really want peace somewhere, but they have no idea how to do it.

So, yes, Mr. Lindsey Graham can say, Mr. Trump, who he’s always begging up to because he needs him politically, Mr. Trump can do this wonderful thing. Every president has been able in this country to make good deals with the Israelis and with the AIPAC lobby here in the United States. And you know Professor Mearsheimer and Waltz and the expert work they’ve done on explaining what that’s about. They have tried to make some arrangement to give Israel a bit more security, which is all it’s been about. That’s popular. It can be dressed up as peace, which it never was, but it can be dressed up. It can be punctuated by wars in which it is explained to us that the Arabs started the bad war, the Israelis wanted peace. It’s a joke. There’s been no peace. It’s never stopped. The warfare there is forever. And no one wants to understand if it lasts this long, if it keeps on going, it has to have some very profound roots.

For example, and I don’t mean to beat this issue, but given what the Israelis did to the Palestinians in Gaza, the only real question: where does the strength of those Palestinians come from that they would hold on to their land under the level of catastrophe Israel unloaded on them? And you know, no one has answered that question because it’s too dangerous. And you know, the same question now applies not as harshly, I understand, but it applies as well in Iran. The mistake in the United States was not learning that if the Palestinians can stay in Gaza despite what the Israelis have done, then of course the Iranians are going to stay with their position after only a few weeks of what you have done in Gaza. And it might in fact bring them together, as it did.

Americans don’t know, but there are disagreements among the Palestinians, important ones, long-standing ones. Those are active in Gaza too, but they came together. Hamas remains because of that. Hezbollah and the new Houthis also. These are fundamental issues. Either you deal with them or you don’t. The United States has not because it has had the view that an outpost of Western colonialism in that part of the world is useful. And the Jews who go there to work on that, they’re useful too. That’s it. And as long as they’re useful, you support them.

And so we have the absurd spectacle in which the United States funds Israel, which uses a part of the funds to buy the political support in America to continue the flow of the funds. Anyone who pays attention knows. This is a game to hold on. And that’s the reason I bring it up, that’s what’s over. That project is in a dying phase.

Israelis made the decision to hitch their future to the United States. Well, at the time they did it, it had a certain logic. Now they are stuck with a declining empire, and they are desperately trying to keep that empire going because they depend on it. When Tucker Carlson tells the American people who listen to him that this war is directed by Mr. Netanyahu, which I don’t believe it is, but he does, what he’s grasping at in his American way is something to say, other than that empire is declining, because he can’t bring himself to it either.

And I don’t think you’re going to deal with you need to answer Michael’s question, you would need an American government led by a political party whose leadership was able to say, we are not going to be watching the Strait of Hormuz. It’s not what we do. We are not going to preside over a declining empire by doing everything we can to defeat anybody who threatens us. We are instead going to sit down, above all, with the Chinese, but with others, to work out how there can be a gradual, humane, civilized decline of the American situation and a lifting up of everybody else, because that’s what the world wants.

And if the United States were an ally in working that out, rather than an obstacle, ever more violent, ever more murderous, ever more disregarding laws and openly speaking of the jungle, well, I think we would have a basis for something to be negotiated. Let’s negotiate that. Let’s give the American people who want it a gradual worked-out decline. Otherwise, what we are working our way towards is a cataclysmic decline, a cave in, a collapse.

Well, my own judgment is, and I admit there’s hope here because, you know, for all the psychological reasons it might be sitting in my mind, there’s hope here that there will be people who can see clearly eventually that this is the end of the colonial project. We are at the end of a century of anti-colonialism. It’s come down now to the last of the big ones, the American Empire.

It was understood. You know, the United States is four and a half percent of the world’s population. You cannot have an enduring arrangement, and it’s amazing that we’ve had it for a century anyway, in which four and a half percent of the people sit and, how did Mr. Trump put it, will be watching the other 95 percent. This is a joke. And now the joke is no longer funny because the Chinese and the Russians and the Indians and the Brazilians, no, no, no. And you’re not going to prevail. The United States is not going to be able to prevail. That is a wild fantasy. And it’s been indulged because of the peculiarity of the destruction out of World War II.

But that period is now very much behind us. And there can be a leadership emerging here who says honestly to the people what Michael said, but changed in this way. If we don’t find a way to coexist, then we are going to be in a terrible place in the months and the years and the decades ahead. You don’t want to leave that to your children, do you? And you can do something now, but you will never do it with people like Trump and Hegseff and Lindsey Graham because these are crude cheerleaders who think that America is this superpower which simply needs to throw off its shackles to bring everybody into line. These are children brought up by a terrible moment in our history into a position of leadership from which they have to be removed because they can’t. It’s too late for them, just as it’s too late for the project they’re trying to keep alive.

Take care.

######## rwe_1
Richard Wolff's avatar]

[Democracy At Work's avatar]

Richard Wolff and Democracy At Work

Jul 21, 2026

71

12

Share

[]

Deeply divided by nationalism and deprived of its vast colonies by the last century’s catastrophic two World Wars, western Europe has been in decline ever since. Recently that decline has become drastic and desperate as western Europe falls ever further behind – economically, militarily, and politically – today’s two superpowers: the US and China. Mediocre and unpopular leaders reflect western European decline. They bet and built their careers on accepting junior partner positions vis-à-vis the United States. But Europe’s decline now threatens to split Europe apart. Inside each nation, on one side rich and powerful minorities use their social positions to sustain their wealth and power. On the other side, the masses bear most of the burdens of decline offloaded onto them by the rich and powerful. The problems flowing from these cumulative developments are approaching points of social explosion. Despite the lessons taught by the two world wars, many western European leaders once again provoke and prepare for a war, this time against Russia, notwithstanding the awful risks of nuclear weapons. One key question to ask: why is this happening?

From 1945 to 1990, Cold War set western European nations against the USSR and its eastern European allies in many ways and on many levels. Yet that war remained cold, not hot. In 2026, after more than three decades of post-Cold War peace, a military war between a largely unified Europe (east and west) and post-Soviet Russia seems imminent. Such a war has been prepared by NATO’s growth, its moving eastward toward Russian borders since 1990, by Russia’s 2022 invasion of Ukraine, and by the escalations of their hostilities by both Russia and Ukraine since that invasion. War between much of Europe and Russia now looms.

d@w's Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.

Subscribe

US President Trump used both his presidential terms to distance the United States from his European allies in NATO. Among his provocative, unilateral statements and actions were heavy tariffs on imports from European countries. In exchange for some reduction of those tariffs on Europeans, Trump demanded and obtained tribute from European Commission President von der Leyen (over $1 trillion in committed purchases of liquified natural gas plus investments by Europe in the United States). He also reduced US support for the war against Russia in Ukraine. That war thus became a mostly European project.

As the US withdrew from its former close alliance with Europe, the latter’s leaders developed an increasing hostility toward Russia. They demonized the Russian leader, Vladimir Putin. Where Trump notably lessened hostility to Russia, his European counterparts intensified their’s. After Russia invaded Ukraine in 2022, Europe and the US rushed to bolster Ukraine’s defense beyond the huge assistance they had already provided to Ukraine since at least 2014. After February, 2022, Europeans provided Ukraine with still more support in finance and weapons. By 2026, many observers in Europe and Russia and beyond predicted a Russo-European war as imminent. Our goal here is to explain why this dangerous situation arose.

World Wars 1 and 2 fatally weakened capitalist colonialism. Especially, the British, French, German, Dutch, Belgian, Russian and Japanese colonialisms had escalated competitive clashes into two catastrophically self-destructive wars. That allowed movements of the colonized people finally to defeat the weakened colonizers and win political independence. The different anti-capitalist movements that had blossomed earlier in 19^(th) century Europe allied with anti-colonialism especially in the Soviet revolution of 1917 and the Chinese revolution of 1949. A complex, shifting relationship between anti-colonialism and anti-capitalism continues to evolve in both the Global South and the former colonial powers.

The private capitalist classes atop each colonialist nation had understood the colonies’ importance for their profits and thus for their imperial economies. They went to war in large part to retain their colonies. After the two World Wars, they faced, separately and together, momentous challenges to their existence. As their empires dissolved in wars of independence, losing them threatened capitalists’ profits and their national economies. Worse still was a potential alliance linking ex-colonies, the Comintern nations, and those capitalists’ own domestic socialist and communist parties and unions. Fearing such developments, nothing less than the survival of 20th century European capitalism seemed at stake for European capitalists and their supporters.

To undo this threat western Europe appealed to the post-World War 2 global hegemon, the United States. Within a few years after 1945, the US had scooped up much of what European and Japanese colonialisms had lost. US capitalists moved into newly independent, ex-colonies to widen and deepen their economic dependence via the dollar as world currency and both trade with and capitalist investments from the US. European capitalists lost everything or else had to settle for positions as junior partners of their US counterparts. Europe as a whole followed suit and became the junior partner of the US in most other dimensions (NATO, geo-politics, financial and cultural institutions, etc.)

As the sole heir of all other capitalist colonialisms, the US led and organized capitalism’s counter offensive against the USSR, socialisms and communisms generally, and their alliances with anti-imperialism in particular. It did so by mobilizing western Europe, Canada, and Japan as major subordinates in a globally hegemonic bloc. The US could do that because it had suffered far less than any of the other capitalist colonial nations from the two world wars. Indeed, World War Two had functioned to extract the US from capitalism’s worst ever crash. Its economy was stronger in 1945 than it had been for many years whereas in all the former colonizing nations the reverse was the case. That economic strength contributed to its dominant military power.

US hegemony defined itself as a moral crusade against a great evil, the USSR (equated with communism). The US was “the leader of the free world” pitted against an unfree world USSR, eastern Europe, and, after 1949, China. The latter were all demonized as anti-capitalist dictatorships. That made them enemies of “democracy” as championed in and by the free world. On that basis, US hegemony followed as the necessary condition to “contain” the unfree world, to prevent its spread. The US led “free world” could and would guarantee containment by means of global military bases, the world’s greatest military arsenal, ideological campaigns, political isolation, and economic discriminations. The world thus entered into a Cold War (1945-1990) punctuated by military (hot) wars when the US deemed them necessary (for example, in Korea and Vietnam).

US hegemony included domestic campaigns inside both Europe and the US aimed at containment as well. Those campaigns all featured two parts. One was a set of “welfare state” or social democratic benefits for working classes. Leading politicians in north America, western Europe and Japan installed those benefits. Many feared that not doing so would influence working classes toward socialism and communism. In the US, this meant perpetuating the 1930s New Deal into the 1970s. Successive leaders, Republican as well as Democratic, added Medicare to social security, regularly raised minimum wages, gave special attention to the non-white and non-male victims of systemic discrimination, subsidized higher education via massive public institutions, and subsidized home ownership loans. Such state interventions delivered a much less harsh life for working classes than any prior private capitalism had ever done. Keynesian economics added a scientistic rationale (monetary and fiscal policies to moderate business cycles) to the political necessity of welfare state expenditures.

The other part of containment campaigns included widespread purges of Communists, socialists and their “fellow travelers.” In the US, a ferocious “anti-communism” project “cleansed” labor unions, schools, mass media and government of leftist employees. Capitalist employers’ organizations and many individual capitalists collaborated with the state’s repressive campaigns. They mobilized behind Senator Joseph McCarthy for a few years. His was a particularly extreme version of the old American political style of demonizing political opponents, foreign and domestic, as “of the devil.” The US House of Representatives established an “Un-American Activities Committee. Such campaigns’ ostensible objective was to destroy the Communist Party. Mass media circuses, newspaper headlines, arrests, prison sentences, deportations and getting witnesses to betray others and lose their jobs were their means. Guilt by association targeted socialists and independent left-leaning citizens. Purges identified many victims by citing their activities before 1945. It made little difference that those activities then (in unions, political parties, schools, churches, and civic associations) were both legal and often patriotically anti-fascist. The systematic repression of the US left after 1945 left deep political scars.

Western Europe dutifully undertook a similarly two-sided project. However social conditions there imposed different qualities on it anti-Soviet and domestic anti-left campaigns. Europe’s pre-1945 history gave communist and socialist parties and their millions of members much greater social approval than existed in the US. Leftists’ roles in resisting fascism before and during World War 2 – often heroic - gave them a genuine, widespread popularity. They could defend their political views and themselves in ways their US counterparts could not. European welfare states were more generous and lasted longer than their US counterparts.

While nothing quite like McCarthyism swept Europe, most western European nations joined NATO and aligned their foreign policies to the US-led containment agenda. Their defense budgets and capabilities declined, and they relied instead on US military protection. What each European state saved by means of small defense budgets it could then use to provide public services for their working classes. The latter might otherwise have required higher taxes on corporations and the rich (and not only or chiefly on working people). European capitalists supported their welfare states partly because they endorsed containment. Equally important, capitalists supported government social welfare spending because it came, not from more taxes on them, but rather from national budgets’ defense savings. The latter were benefits from European subordination to NATO and its US leadership. That subordination included mostly endorsing US hostility toward the USSR, China and all things “communistic.”

For the last 75 years, European politicians who hesitated to embrace the positions and tones consistent with the US-European “consensus” on foreign and domestic policies saw their career opportunities threatened or destroyed. The British sought and found a special role as the US closest friend and imitator in this consensus. The rest of western Europe sometimes mocked Britain’s fawning subordination, but many jealously and secretly approximated it. European capitalists looked longingly at the US’s steadily shrinking welfare state programs that facilitated tax cuts on corporations and the rich. However, those non-anglo Europeans accepted the political limits that rendered matching the US and UK impossible. They could only hold back the domestic power of their working classes by providing generous social welfare policies. The same was required to make western Europe a consumerist bulwark against Russia, thereby to contain it and its eastern European allies.

Breaking from those limits only became thinkable when it was made necessary. That happened when Trump’s ended the post-1945 US-Europe deal. His “friendliness” with Russia underscored his evident contempt for western Europe as a junior partner/dependent that was too costly to carry any more. His trade and tariff wars pointedly did not exempt Europe. The tariff particularly shocked western European capitalists who had concentrated during reconstruction (1945-1975) on producing goods and services that could compete in the rich US market. The tariffs also occurred just when Trump reduced support for Ukraine in its war with Russia and sharply criticized NATO. For shocked western European leaders, Trump broke the US-European deals of the post-1945 world.

Ever since 1945, western European capitalists had set themselves to rebuild their economies by producing goods and services of better quality and/or cheaper than the US output that dominated both the US and other markets. This included some investments in their former colonies, rendering them economically dependent notwithstanding their political independence. The latter became more performative than substantive. It remains that way in many areas. The crucially important exception was the spectacular economic growth of the People’s Republic of China. That changed everything and continues to do so. It is transforming the world economy as it takes an ever more powerful place therein.

China’s still export-driven manufacturing economy competes globally and ever more successfully with what remains of manufacturing in the US and in Europe. China competes as well as an importer of energy and other inputs. Chinese competition added strains to the European and US economies that were already struggling to cope with the declines of their empires. Europe already had had a century of decline whereas the US was new to decline with many of its citizens steadfastly committed to denial as their coping mechanism of choice.

Western European capitalism had partly offset its decline first by post-war reconstruction, then by explosions of consumer credit. Then (and especially after 1989), Europe welcomed waves of cheap immigrant labor, while expanding eastward to re-absorb eastern Europe into its economic operations much as it was doing with its former colonies. Pushing NATO eastward and expanding EU membership were the chief mechanisms to accomplish western Europe’s capitalist neocolonialism. Fantasies swirled about extending those mechanisms eastward to include Russia, perhaps dividing it up into smaller states as manageable as eastern European states were. If somehow achieved, that could give western Europe an immense new geographic expanse to economically colonize. Trump too engaged parallel fantasies in his neo-colonial gestures toward Panama, Canada, Greenland, Venezuela, Cuba, and Mexico.

The great break in post-World War 2 US-European relations came with US President Trump’s combination trade and tariff war designed to “make the US economy great again.” Trump had effectively dedicated his second Presidential term, begun in January, 2025, to waging this economic war. Another part of that war was a broad turn away from neo-liberal globalization and toward a systematic economic nationalism (“America first”), Trump’s blunt message was disengagement. Europe could no longer count on the US to provide it with military protection. Trump depicted Europe as an ally who had betrayed and cheated the US economically. He demanded payments as compensation. Those took the form of buying US liquified natural gas (LNG) for its energy needs plus committing to invest $700 billion or more in the US over a few coming years. Ursula von der Leyen formally acceded to Trump’s demands. Such payments amounted to “tribute” or “reparations,” depending on one’s viewpoint.

Requiring Europe’s purchase of NLG from the US emerged from the Russia-Ukraine war. The economic sanctions of that war (since February 2022) plus the destruction of the Nord Stream pipelines (September 2022) sharply reduced and then ended the flow of cheap energy from Russia into Germany and other parts of western Europe. Desperate for access to energy, Europe turned increasingly to imports from elsewhere – and especially from the US – at a much higher cost. Meanwhile, steadily growing trade competition from China and more rapid technical innovations achieved in China and the US further squeezed the European economy.

The shock of Trump’s abandonment of Europe as the US economy’s junior partner accelerated the decline of Europe. Once it had been the dominating center of a planet it had colonized. Now it had fallen to a poor third place in a world economy increasingly dominated by what had once been poor corners of that planet. On one side stood the declining but still strong US, on the other the rising People’s Republic of China. No wonder the Ukraine war drove Russia to declare its identity shifting from European to Asian.

Europe’s political leaders reflected and exemplified its decline. Especially Burnham, Macron, Merz and Meloni – like most of their predecessors since 1945 - had built political lives around loyalty and subservience to the post-World War 2 deal with the US. They relied on the military, financial, and ideological support from the US, on NATO, IMF, World Bank, and myriad NGO missionaries for US “democracy.” They championed their “close alliance” with the US as a key cause of Europe’s prosperity and peace after 1945. Betrayed by Trump, they were forced by Europe’s decline to pay tribute with monies therefore not available to offset that decline. Trump pointedly forced them to begin financing the huge costs of developing their own military defense (already far behind the military capabilities of the US, on one side, and the China-Russia alliance on the other).

Given the deep personal opportunism cultivated in western European leaders by their subordinate (to the US) situation, they grasped that Trump’s betrayal threatened their careers. Trump’s repeated insults of and disdain for western Europe risked provoking European voters to turn against leaders seen as slavish toward Trump’s US. Those leaders’ alarm only deepened as much of the US employer class seemed quite supportive of Trump’s anti-Europeanism. Perhaps their greatest fear lay in the possible reactions of European voters once they understood that Trump’s betrayal posed serious economic dangers for them. Voters might ask where the money would come from to finance European rearmament when the US defense umbrella closed. If enhanced, would budget allocations for the military diminish outlays for mass public social services, raise their taxes or both. Europeans began to wonder out loud whether the Ukraine-Russia war being fought to the last Ukrainian, might prefigure a US war with Russia/China fought to the last European? European voters know their social democracy and their peace are fragile. Trump’s betrayal threatens both. How that plays out in European politics provides new opportunities for the left and the right and existential threats to the traditional centrist pro-US political leadership trying desperately to retain power.

Nationalist politicians on the European right see their opportunity. Office-holding conservative leaders (like Burnham, Macron and Merz, for example) can be voted out via guilt by subordination. They perpetuated the post World War 2 programs that made Europe vulnerable to its current economic decline because of their subservience to the US. Western European opportunism now incites the suspicion that maybe it bet on the wrong horse. A similar suspicion now arises in some of the Gulf States in the wake of the US-Israel war on Iran. Having “invited” US military bases to be constructed on their land for security they now see that those bases actually achieved the opposite. The bases and their host nations have become endangered targets vulnerable to Iranian drones and missiles.

Anti-capitalist politicians on the left also see an opportunity. The US was a partner who mostly pushed Europe to the right. The US undid its New Deal sooner and took that undoing further than the Europeans dared to even try to do to their welfare state. Among the results of Europe’s left: it abolished the death penalty when the US pointedly did not. Military adventures including Vietnam, Afghanistan, Iraq, and now Ukraine and Iran were always started, led, and driven by the US with the Europeans marginally along as “coalitions of the [barely] willing.” Left politicians in western Europe kept seeking to secure if not advance social democratic goals and policies. One way to do that was to limit the US connection as a context for more socialistic development in Europe. The European left positions itself as the way for the mass beneficiaries of the social democratic state to protect it from a US-connected old leadership that always seems to threaten social democracy. Europe’s left likewise rejects the nationalist right politicians because of their pro-capitalist, anti-worker and anti-immigrant tendencies.

Europe’s old US-linked political leaders have now found a way to arrest or mabe even reverse Europe’s frightening decline. It is the only way to do that they can see or imagine. That way can, they believe, both keep them in power in the short run and give them a new economic growth opportunity in the longer term. That way provides a convenient public justification for shifting state budget expenditures from public social services to big-business defense firms, from social democracy to pro-employer (pro-capitalist) austerity. By minimizing any extra taxes upon their employer classes, western European leaders serve them very well. They will cover the costs of rearmament and tribute obligated to the US by diverting funds from the welfare state plus state-guaranteed borrowing plus heightened mass-based taxes, if needed, on working classes. Domestic austerity will be intensified across western Europe while wages are brought downward toward southern and eastern European levels.

Europe’s leaders believe they can accomplish this by pumping up mass anxiety and fear around urgent preparations for a war against Russia. To that end, they demonize Russia beyond even the levels achieved against Stalin and Stalinism during the Cold War. Those leaders hope that an adequately terrified Europe will keep voting for them for a while. Longer run hopes entail imagining Russia’s military defeat and consequent de-jure or de-facto dismemberment. The resulting sub-units of old Russia would then offer Western Europe a new colonial opportunity, a vast expanse for profitable investment to obtain food, raw materials, and possibly workers to rejuvenate western European capitalism. The same western European leaders who criticize Trump lusting after Denmark’s Greenland indulge parallel lusts after Russia’s geographic expanse.

All wars are overdetermined by both domestic and international causes intertwined. Europe’s current drone and missile warfare against Russia escalated from the Russia’s “special military operation” against Ukraine that began in 2022. Its local over-determinants began earlier. Local concerns woven into global shifts – NATO toward the east and China toward the west – shaped Russia’s changing international position, concerns and “red lines.” The whole world watches as China-Russia and their allies square off against the US and whatever allies it retains. The world sees the wars in Ukraine and Iran today as conflicts among proxies of the two great powers of our time.

The danger inherent in both wars is that Europe or the US or Russia or Israel might resort to nuclear weapons if “existentially threatened. The question is whether global masses and leaders can recognize the danger. This essay is one effort toward that recognition. The solution is a serious commitment to international collaboration. What began as the League of Nations and was rebuilt as the United Nations needs still another incarnation with real powers and real global respect. Otherwise we risk World War 3 and its mad, mutual assured destruction.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Share

Subscribe

71

12



######## rwe_2
Richard Wolff's avatar]

[Democracy At Work's avatar]

Richard Wolff and Democracy At Work

Jul 20, 2026

46

18

Share

[]

In the second half of the 19^(th) century, as Russia’s feudalism ended and its empire tottered, the great Russian novelist, Chernyshevsky, reflected that time’s deepening concerns and anxieties in his 1863 novel, “What is to be Done?” It offered a socialist answer. Forty years later, a crude and rapacious capitalism had rushed in to replace Russian feudalism. The ex-serfs then began to understand that they had not escaped from exploitation, as they had hoped and dreamed. Rather they suffered a new form of it as industrial workers. Lenin reflected the concerns and anxieties of that form in his 1901/2 pamphlet with its deliberately repeated title, “What is to be done?” It too offered a socialist answer. Today, a declining US empire upsets and undermines US capitalism as it rattles and shakes the world economy. International laws are increasingly ignored, and crude authoritarianisms increasingly haunt domestic politics. Many around the world are asking that old question yet again. As well they should. Here is yet another socialist answer.

Emerging from the fogs of politics and war, each continuing the other by different means, an historic global reset is now underway. On the surface, the world is caught up directly or indirectly in the US/Israeli war on Iran, the Russia-Ukraine-NATO war, and their effects. Below the surface, as the reset’s contours become visible, they can help us to better grasp our own history and thereby better shape where we go from here.

Marx’s Hegelian lens enabled him to see that how Britain subordinated India, north America, and the rest of its empire also provoked their modern development in ways that eventually undermined that empire. For example, the wars of independence waged by one colony (1775-1783 and then again in 1812-1815) created first the United States and then the Monroe doctrine. Both diminished the British empire and its aspirations. Yet the expanding US also provided Britain with the slave-produced cotton that enabled the textile industry to underpin the British empire’s 19^(th) century growth and power. The US also provided Britain with markets and profitable investments.

d@w's Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.

Subscribe

Europe’s (and then also Japan’s) nineteenth and twentieth centuries scrambles to expand and exploit their respective empires culminated in two world wars that destroyed all those empires. A partial exception was the United States, protected by two oceans and the limits then of military technology. The US survived the first world war (1914-18) with minimal damages compared to the other combatants. It did so again in the Second World War (1939-1945), using it to recover from the Great Depression (1929-1939) and to replace most earlier empires with its own. Many of the big contradictions driving world history since 1945 emerged from the ending of the old empires interacting with the rise of the new American empire.

Strengths and weaknesses proliferated alongside one another. The US’s “informal” empire proved more productive and powerful than the “formal” empires of the past. It subordinated the rest of the world to serve its capitalists first and foremost. It did, as Marx predicted, produce a unified world economy by means of its technological innovations (especially in jet aviation and telecommunications). It thereby accumulated unprecedented levels of wealth.

But it also defined for all the colonized people, formal and informal alike, a way forward. They would copy the colonizers’ technologies, diversify industrialized production, and participate profitably in world markets. Before 1945, the billions of people formally and informally colonized had been limited to the worst, most marginal positions in relation to global capitalism (“hewers of wood and drawers of water” or a “poor periphery for a rich center”). Political independence, urgently pursued, disappointed those who imagined it would bring liberation from their colonial marginality. Some of those billions consequently tried to break through by adapting the socialism of the Europeans.

The working classes in Europe had looked forward to a world of “liberty, equality, and fraternity” as they supported the transition from feudalism to capitalism. But what that transition had promised them, the resulting actually existing capitalism failed to deliver. Socialism emerged to represent a possible post-capitalist reality that could and would deliver what capitalism had falsely promised. Marx proved crucial because his analysis of capitalism located the barrier to delivering on that promise inside capitalism itself, in its defining structure of the relations of production as employer and employee. Those workers who grasped what Marx taught tried to build an anti-colonialist movement that was also anticapitalist and socialist: Nkrumah, Toure, Castro, Ho Chi Minh, Lumumba, and so many others. Their efforts, however deeply inspirational and influential on all that has happened since, proved nonetheless premature.

Anti-imperialism was solidly grounded in a mass determination to end the marginality of the working classes of the formerly colonized and now nominally “independent” regions. The support for socialism was less deeply rooted, present and growing but still relatively underdeveloped. What became the programmatic goal of the formerly colonized and wretched of the earth was to gain access, as quickly as possible, to the global capitalism led by the US empire after 1945.

What the US empire after 1945 did was displace European colonialism and replace it with US brands of economic, political and cultural domination across a world of politically independent nations. The US grouped them loosely in the United Nations that the US controlled and funded. It subordinated them tightly in NATO, SEATO, and comparable alliances around the world. The first 25 years after 1945 were recovery time for the war-ravaged economies of western Europe and Japan. Because the US provided them with the money (Marshall Plan etc.) to buy (from the US) what they needed to recover, the US thereby gave its own capitalists a very Keynesian-stimulated prosperity.

That prosperity spawned a level of uncritical celebration of all things American as components of an “exceptional” society. An unspoken taboo precluded understanding that exceptionality as temporary, an historical oddity shaped by two world wars’ extremely uneven effects. Instead, the US’s self-celebration obscured history’s forward movement as it changed the nation and the world. Few recognized the peaking of the US empire early in the 21^(st) century: fewer still the beginning of its decline.

By the 1970s, the recoveries of the major economies destroyed in and by World War 2 were largely completed. That ended the first phase of post-war US prosperity. The US was no longer the only major manufacturer or only nuclear power or only competitive producer. It did remain the globally dominant capitalist power except where its dominion was rejected (the group of nations led by the Soviet Union and the People’s Republic of China). The US dollar had become the world’s number one currency, the US hosted the world’s number one consumer and capital markets. Along the way the US had become a major world debtor. However, that tied the rest of the world – via the petro-dollar system – all the more closely to the dollar even as it introduced a new dollar vulnerability.

For US prosperity to continue after the 1970s its employer class had to find a new way to profit in the new global conditions. That class accomplished this by means of two major economic movements. The first was an exodus of manufacturing from the US to China, India, Brazil and elsewhere. China was best positioned, by the 1949 victory of its Communist revolution, to welcome that exodus. It offered additional means to facilitate China’s rapid industrialization. In effect, China offered employers outside China access to a massive new group of employees at far, far lower real wages than available elsewhere. After a few years, as the number of Chinese employees swelled and their real wages rose, China added the offer of a large and fast-rising consumer market.

Under the control and supervision of a powerful central state and Communist Party apparatus, China constructed a 2-sector economy. One half was private enterprises, owned and operated by both Chinese and foreign private capitalists. The other half comprised public enterprises owned and operated by the Chinese government. In a very few decades it very rapidly grew outputs of first consumer and then also capital goods. By partnering with Walmart and other distributors, it quickly penetrated consumer markets nearly everywhere. By bringing relatively cheap consumer goods to employees everywhere, employers everywhere could slow money wage increases since workers’ wages could keep going further by accessing the cheap goods flowing from China.

The second major movement enabling US prosperity after the 1970s was the so-called petro-dollar system. Together the US and Saudi Arabia (then the world’s major oil producer) agreed to require all global oil sales to be priced in US dollars. All countries buying oil would need to maintain growing stocks of dollars available to pay for it. Countries selling that oil would accumulate huge dollar profits. Those stocks would be held and those profits would be invested in dollar-denominated assets (especially US treasury securities, but also US private stocks and bonds, and US real estate). Dollars sent abroad to pay for all US imports (increasingly larger than exports) thus came back to the US, via the petro-dollar system, in large part as loans to the US treasury.

The US treasury borrowed in this way to pay for its many wars, large and small. This enabled US governments to avoid having to raise taxes to pay for wars. Domestic opposition to those wars would have been much greater had higher taxes been required to pay for them. As oil became ever more important as an energy source and as supplies grew, the pool of petro-dollar funds expanded and thus fueled ever more US borrowing. It was a cycle that occasioned far less alarm than it should have.

What might happen, few asked, if oil supplies stopped for reasons natural or social? Might the Strait of Hormuz be closed after 47 years of worsening conflict between the US, Israel, and Iran? What parts of the world’s economies depended on the vast global shipping of oil and its derivatives? How would a closing of the Strait of Hormuz affect the petro-dollar system that already faced other challenges? Would oil producers then have to put their dollar-denominated assets up for fire sales to meet their obligations if oil shipping was blocked? Would such sales disrupt US stock and bond markets at a sensitive moment? Would reduced global oil trade block or complicate budget borrowings by the US government trying to finance its trillion dollar debts? Might US government borrowing under those circumstances force up interest rates just when a recession made that a particularly bad idea? Unevenly rising prices of oil, natural gas, fertilizer, helium, etc. are now initial results of closing the Strait of Hormuz. These days we fearfully await the disruptions and problems flowing from the closed Strait of Hormuz. We also wonder about potential parallel problems in the world’s other vulnerable shipping passageways.

These are contradictions of capitalism today, the effects of earlier configurations of capitalism’s contradictions. Capitalism once confined itself, in Europe, for example, to small regions within a feudal context. It eventually grew, overthrew feudalism, and accomplished a transition to a new and different organization of production. First these were individual and then clusters of enterprises, fields and workshops, where employers and employees had replaced lords and serfs. Eventually individual capitalist workplaces grew and further organized themselves as national capitalisms.

National capitalisms, intrinsically expansionary, provoked colonialisms and then a world or global capitalism. Its movements of goods, services, loans and investments enhanced productivities, wealth and power. They also generated other sets of contradictions including those that just shut the Strait of Hormuz, caused the UAE to leave OPEC, led solar increasingly to displace fossil-fuel based energy, and built pipelines to reduce reliance on tankers. Then too, there is the shrinkage of political support for the Trump presidency as high oil prices serve, like AI, to worsen economic inequalities.

What then is to be done in 2026? To resolve the US-Israel-Iran war that now frightens the entire world we must go beyond its horrifying oscillations between standoff and real risks of limitless mutual destructions. How and why has the world come to this point?

A transition transformed European feudalism from an early small-scale, decentralized social system into a late feudalism structured around absolute monarchies seeking colonies globally. A comparable transition inside European capitalism transformed it from an early, decentralized social system into a late capitalism structured around globalizing mega-corporations. The feudal and the capitalist periods as well as the transitions among them were characterized by some of the worst violence, genocides, and wars in the history of our species. Swirling around the Strait of Hormuz a similar whirlwind builds up. Common to both feudalism and capitalism and the transitions between and within them was one constant: workplaces were structured antagonistically. In feudalism, serfs and lords confronted one another in constant struggle. In capitalism, employees and employers did the same. The revolt of the serfs from feudalism – arounds such goals as liberty, equality and fraternity – ended up with a capitalism that instead replaced one antagonistic struggle with another. Perhaps the solution now is an altogether different kind of transition, one that breaks, finally, with all those antagonisms (master/slave, lord/serf, and employer/employee).

The transition we may need is founded on a rejection of antagonistic splits in the human relations internal to workplaces. Consider a transition of society’s workplaces – factories, offices, stores, farms, etc. – to democratically structured human relations. Suppose each person engaged in each workplace had one vote and majorities decided what to produce, how to produce it, and where the work activity occurred. Democratic decisions likewise decided how to dispose of the products or, if located within market systems, the revenues from selling such products. Democratic decisions would decide on the distribution of income from the workplace.

Profit maximization in such workplaces would be only one among their several goals and success measures. The contexts of local community, region, nation and society would be welcomed to provide additional goals and measures. Capitalistically organized workplaces worked out their interdependence with their contexts to reproduce their employer-employee organization. Democratized workplaces would structure that interdependence differently, namely to reproduce their different workplace organization. The latter interdependence means that democratic decision-making could be far more socially prevalent than anything capitalism ever achieved.

Even where and when capitalism allowed democratic voting in the political realm based on residence, it denied it in the economic realm. Employees within capitalist workplaces had no vote on key enterprise decisions. Employers reserved those decisions to themselves exclusively. Employers’ interests governed their decisions. Where and when the employer-employee division is overcome, everyone working within a democratized enterprise helps to make a recognized contribution to running it. Every worker likewise shares an equal responsibility.

What needs to be done here and now is this other kind of transition. This time it will be away from and beyond capitalism understood, from a socialist perspective, as the employer-employee workplace organization (or, as Marx put it, the human relations of production). Democratically organized worker cooperatives are the goal. Such a transition honors the concept of democracy by adding the economic enterprise as a necessary site of its installation. The merely formal democracy typical in parliamentary systems today can thereby become substantial. To be clear, this transition would be global and apply to privately-owned as well as state-owned enterprises. Capitalism built a world economy. The socialist transition proposed here can build a good world economy, one genuinely committed to deliver the liberty, equality, fraternity and democracy that capitalism never did.

Subscribe

Share

46

18



######## rwe_3
Richard Wolff's avatar]

Richard Wolff

May 21, 2026

48

1

17

Share

[]

By the end of World War 2 in Europe, that continent’s extremely violent self-destruction had killed tens of millions and wrecked many economies. Its politically dominant employer classes had driven their national governments to a clash that had produced those results. By 1945 the war’s outcome had proved far worse than many in those classes had imagined or wanted before the war. Europeans had struggled after 1917/1918 to overcome their self-destruction in World War 1. In the short span between the end of the First and the beginning of the Second World War, Europe destabilized itself via its reparations program, Germany’s staggering inflation, and then global capitalism’s worst ever collapse in 1929. The consequences of those destabilizations ramified across Europe and undermined the League of Nations effort to prevent a second world war.

d@w's Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.

Subscribe

In 1945, for most Europeans, the greatest urgency attached to recovery from the war. For Europe’s employing classes, more urgent still were defenses against certain immediate threats. Russia’s army had been crucial to defeating the Nazis and to forging Russia’s post-war alliances with Eastern Europe. The mass of the USSR’s military forces, potentially supplemented by those of its new Eastern European allies, struck western Europe’s employer classes as existential threats. After 1945, western Europe’s employer classes smoothly and quickly refocused their hatred from a dead Hitler to the living Stalin and to their nations’ communist parties allied to Stalin.

Western Europe’s employer classes were threatened domestically by communist and socialist political parties whose militants had often led underground anti-fascist or anti-Nazi resistances. Thereby those militants often became broadly popular leaders. Across Europe national communist parties collaborated in various ways with one another (including the powerful Soviet party). Some post-war European heads of state such as France’s Charles de Gaulle included communist party leaders in their governments. In reaction to such developments, Europe’s employer classes quickly became obsessed with the great twin dangers of “communism at home and abroad.”

A parallel development had happened across the Atlantic in the US. There the Great Depression after 1929 had provoked a mass political shift leftward by the US public. Employees in unprecedented numbers had joined industrial unions allied in the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO). Tens of thousands joined two socialist parties and one communist party. Because the socialists and communists were often the militants in the CIO’s successful organizing drives across major industries, employers in the US were all the more alarmed by those successes in the 1930s and the 1940s. The CIO, socialist and communist parties also formed a far more powerful coalition within the Democratic Party than they had ever been before 1929.

The alliance between the Democratic Party under Franklin Roosevelt and the CIO-socialist-communist collaborations – the so-called “New Deal” coalition – terrified the employer class. The coalition’s key 1930s achievements included establishing the Social Security system, federal unemployment insurance, the nation’s first minimum wage, and a federal public jobs program that hired many millions of the then unemployed. What terrified the employer class even more was how the New Deal coalition paid for those achievements. It reformed the federal tax system in a sharply progressive direction. Because corporations and the rich were especially taxed, US wealth and income inequalities dropped sharply. Then in the 1940s, the same US government that took huge steps against economic inequality at home allied itself with the Communist Party leadership of the USSR (Stalin) to fight World War 2 against fascism.

By 1945, with the war over and Roosevelt dead, the US employer class had become, like its European counterpart, obsessed with the great twin dangers of “communism at home and abroad.” Parallel obsessions in western Europe and the US converged in a joint plan. Employers and their political supporters and dependents attacked Communist parties everywhere, depicting them as mere agents or dupes of a foreign power, namely the USSR. They demonized the USSR as the epitome of evil, a dark empire threatening democracy, freedom, Judeo-Christian values, religion per se, civil liberties, and so on. A Cold War was declared between the former allies, NATO emerged, and the Warsaw Pact followed as did arms races and geo-political confrontations. The US would lead NATO to “contain the Soviet threat.” The US organized alliances across other continents while locating hundreds of military bases across them. Beyond means of “containment,” the bases marked and enforced a new informal US global empire that replaced much of the old British, French, Dutch, Belgian, Japanese, and other expiring colonialisms.

“Anti-communism” ideologically unified the domestic and international strategies of the employer classes in Europe and the United States. Under that ideological banner, those employer classes mobilized their governments to collaborate with them to destroy national communist parties and the USSR. As global hegemon, the US went further. It demonized socialism and socialist parties by defining and treating them as nearly identical with their communist counterparts. It also used anti-communism as a major ideological weapon to replace formal European and Japanese colonialisms by the informal, US-dominated “rules based international order.”

The US-western Europe connection helped employer classes in both regions to repress or at least weaken their nations’ communist and socialist parties. The US moved very aggressively (as in the Taft-Hartley law of 1947) also to destroy labor unions at home and collaborated with anti-union forces across Europe. Where war-weakened Europe lost its colonies, a strong post-war US could and did rush in to integrate the ex-European colonies into a US empire. The new US empire had to be informal. It had to allow the ex-colonies formal political independence even as it subordinated them to US economic, military, and political dominance across most of Asia, Africa and Latin America. Europe sank into the role of the US’s very junior partner.

The US-western Europe connection brought the US valuable allies against the USSR. Given the military technology of the two world wars - reliance on huge armies fighting across immense terrains - Europe was a land buffer usefully located between the US and the USSR. It provided added protection to the Atlantic ocean’s water buffer. European colonialism had created a genuine world economy that the US could take over. Within that world economy’s particular hierarchy, Europeans were dominant nearly everywhere (except, of course, in the case of Japanese colonialism). Non-Europeans were integrated as subordinated people (economically, politically, culturally). As the Europeans’ formal empires gave way to the US informal empire, colonialist hierarchies persisted with the only real changes occurring at the top. There the civilian and military chiefs of the US (and their delegates) chose, elevated and enriched local elites to direct its informal empire’s development.

The Marshall Plan funded postwar Europe’s recovery in ways that also secured its subordinate role in the new US empire. Funds distributed by the US Central Intelligence Agency since 1947, by the US Endowment for Democracy since 1983, and by other public and private groups supplemented the Marshall money. The advisers who often came with the funds gave Europe’s anti-communist political parties, mass media, labor unions, academic and cultural organizations, many means to use against their domestic enemies. The post-1945 US-western Europe alliance mounted an immense, richly-funded, never ending campaign to shape and control world history. It worked well, overcoming numerous challenges, for 70 years until internal and external forces combined to end it. Now, as the US-western Europe connection dissolves, the contours of its totality and historical significance become clearer.

The relentless rise of China’s economy outgrew the economies of all parts of the US-western Europe alliance over recent decades. China thereby contributed crucially to that alliance’s dissolution. So too has China’s ability simultaneously to forge a new global economic coalition, the BRICS (initially Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa). The BRICS’ establishment and growth (with new members and partners) responded to their felt needs for mutual support and less economic dependence on the US. The BRICS passed a milestone in 2020 (downplayed in Europe and the US) when their aggregate GDP surpassed that of the G7. The former has continued without interruption to outgrow the latter through the present.

The anti-colonialism that inspired the transitions from colonies to independent nations over the last century has survived that transition. It sometimes infuses rebellions against the hegemony of the US. At other times and places it coalesces with religious movements and populist social movements. In these and other ways, it too helps shape changing patterns of global trade and investment. Ex-colonies seek and engage alternatives to trade and investment with former colonial masters in London, Paris, Berlin, etc. They form new economic partnerships with China and increasingly with other BRICS. Increasing competition and lost economic opportunities challenge western Europe, Japan and the US. They also reduce the role of the US dollar as world currency.

The Trump regime represents both the extent of that decline and extreme efforts to stop or at least slow it. Hitting nearly the whole world with tariffs, suddenly and massively without warnings or negotiations, is a desperate act. Offering subsequently to lower initially high tariff rates in exchange for tribute (foreign nations’ commitments to spend and invest $ hundreds of billions in the US) is a blunt, stark, and hostile act. That European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen accepted it is a craven act of Europe’s even more desperate submission. The war on Iran with Israel without consultation or preparation with its European and other allies, coupled with demands for massive, risky support for the US war effort, was also a desperate act. Its goal was to reverse the decline of the US empire; its result was the opposite. The decline accelerated.

The decline, still not admissible publicly in most US politicians’ discourses, nonetheless lurks everywhere in widespread feelings of lost national direction and/or impending social doom. Trump bitterly reproaches former allies like Mexico, Canada, South Korea, Japan, and, above all, western Europe. For example, he rewrites post-1945 history as a story of western Europeans, among others, cheating and abusing the US economy because weak US governments failed to resist and fight back. Trump presents his tariffs as the overdue fight back heroically ending the previous weak governments. Trump was so invested in such political theater situating him as “the strong leader,” that his sudden, rushed tariff program was intolerable even to a Supreme Court he otherwise controls.

Abducting Maduro from Venezuela, the 12-day war on Iran with Israel in June, 2025, and their longer one begun in March, 2026: these are also pieces of the same political theater. They are made-for-the-media distractions: not just from the hovering Epstein scandals or the deeply-troubled inequalities of the domestic US economy, but from the deeper threats of a declining empire. Thus a reaction formation type of neo-colonialism inspires many of Trump’s favorite distractions. So far from admitting decline, those distractions construct a US empire as strong and growing, taking over nations like Venezuela, Cuba, and Iran while planning the same for Panama, Canada, Greenland, Mexico and others. When charged with violating international law and the whole United Nations project, Trump proudly rebrands both actions as bold signs of US strength.

Now again, as in 1945, western Europe and the US find themselves at crossroads. The declining empires then were the Europeans’. Now in 2026 it is the decline of the US empire that has become both the US’s and Europe’s problem. In its desperate moves to slow or stop that decline, the US has turned on its subordinated European partners. That problem and that turning derive from the empire decline shaping this historical moment.

In Trump’s second presidency, he withdrew much of the US’s support for Ukraine in its war with Russia. This not only weakened the Ukrainian side in that war but also left a militarily underdeveloped Europe to rely even more on economic sanctions against Russia. Europe thus lost access to cheap Russian oil and gas. High energy prices resulted, drove up European export prices, and thus damaged its competitiveness. Meanwhile, China’s relentless growth miracle (fast-rising productivity and low inflation) continued its many years of outperforming both Germany’s Wirtschaftswunder and European competitiveness generally. China’s GDP growth far exceeded that of the entire West for the last few decades. Volkswagen’s crisis was so severe it seriously considered the US invitation to move its immense company to the US from Germany. Deindustrialization now deeply disturbs all of Europe’s economies.

The global economy looks increasingly like a great contest between China and the US with Europe increasingly out of the picture or merely a footnote to it. Trump’s massive tariffs on or demands for tribute from Europe combine both abandonments and assaults by the US on its former allies. NATO trembles and faces growing forces of dissolution. Trump demands European nations fund their own defenses in part because the declining US empire needs to enlarge its own military as an offset, Trump hopes, to that decline.

The Europeans are stuck in that metaphorical room whose walls are closing in on them. Their subordination is reflected in their passage from junior partners in US led Coalitions of the Willing to the 2026 Iran war that Spain and Italy have refused to join. Trump openly threatens to leave NATO. The employer classes of Europe are most worried about the combination of no more US-funded defense protection via NATO and the compensatory need to fund expanded European military spending. That will likely mean reducing European spending on its social welfare model of capitalism. Employer classes who do that risk triggering massive opposition from the left (labor unions, socialist, communist and anti-capitalist parties increasingly working together).

So far, Europe’s employer classes have tried to cope with this situation by a quasi-hysterical campaign to demonize Russia as a threat to invade and conquer its European neighbors. Europe’s current, mostly low-in-the-polls heads of state position themselves as great bulwarks against the Russian danger. This strategy aims to justify the increased spending on defense that in turn necessitates reduced government welfare spending. The latter is then rationalized as the whole society’s necessary sacrifice for safety from the Russian demon. The employer classes hope that this way of retaining their wealth, income and power will not be opposed by their working classes as the political issue of our times. The employer classes prefer that the great hyped Russian danger be the political issue.

While the Russian danger discourse might secure Europe’s employer classes a few more years of sitting atop Europe’s wealth and power distributions, it fails to address Europe’s long-term decline. That promises to continue and quite possibly accelerate because little is being done in Europe to directly oppose that continuance. Indeed, the disagreements inside Europe on whether to join the US/Israeli war on Iran coupled with fear of being singled out for retaliations by Trump heightened the competitive pandering among Europeans to curry favor with him. Such divisions have always weakened European unity. Rebuilding that unity is surely a necessary, albeit insufficient, component of any imaginable rescue of Europe from its deepening decline.

The long, uneven, and sometimes frustratingly slow historical shift from capitalist colonialism to today’s anti-imperialism undermined first Europe’s and now the US’s empires. A new crossroads beckons. One way leads toward a new Chinese global empire. Another leads toward a multi-national program of mutual accommodation, a kind of socialism with global characteristics.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Subscribe

Share

48

1

17



######## rwe_4
Richard Wolff's avatar]

[Democracy At Work's avatar]

Richard Wolff and Democracy At Work

Feb 24, 2026

31

10

Share

[]

The Supreme Court’s negation of Trump’s tariffs changes nothing much. The decline of the empire persists and with it that decline extends to the US economy as a whole. And it will continue whether or not Trump finds another law to use to justify tariffs (at higher, lower or the same levels as now) and whether or not SCOTUS invalidates it. The tariffs of 2025 exposed the basic decline situation including some of the costs of having denied and kicked that problem down the road so many times. The SCOTUS decision merely quibbles about the tariffs’ legal justification; this is not surprising given the GOP’s domination of SCOTUS. The class that has long dominated the GOP – employers – has always hated and opposed taxes. And tariffs are taxes that fall chiefly on US employers who buy imported inputs and who may or may not be able to shift them onto retail consumers.

d@w's Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.

Subscribe

A deep ignorance attached to Trump’s imposing a tariff regime in which he irregularly raised, lowered, suspended, and re-imposed tariffs. Such a regime imposed uncertainty by wrapping it around each tariff. That made it irrational for any CEO to take the steps the tariffs were intended to induce. Why spend millions, lose time, and risk a relocation to adjust to a tariff that might be higher or lower or disappear before, during, or shortly after your move? It was much safer for the CEO’s company and for the CEO’s personal career to stay put, do not move. Wait and see and conserve resources became corporate watchwords. Manufacturing jobs in the US across the first year of Trump’s second presidency thus fell by over 70,000.

If Trump finds another loophole in the law to use to justify his tariffs, old or new, it will surely be tested and the eventual SCOTUS decision may well be the same. Enhanced uncertainty dogs whatever tariffs Trump attempts. If instead he demands congressional action, traditional GOP hostility to taxes there makes it quite likely to suffer the same defeat that SCOTUS just rendered. As uncertainty now hovers over Trump’s use of executive orders, it becomes clear that Trump’s tariff regime took him deep into a dead end.

He could, of course, simply ignore domestic laws, the congress that writes them, and the courts supposed to enforce them. He did that originally by imposing the tariffs via executive order before the SCOTUS decision and he can continue afterward. Is that not like the approach presented by the US government’s summary execution of over 135 persons in boats in international waters (Caribbean Sea and Pacific Ocean)? The president’s labeling of them as “narco-terrorists” and “combatants” in a “drug war” is an even thinner rationale than what was offered to support tariffs in 2025. Disregarding existing international laws as well as existing domestic laws has become a source of pride. Trump, Vance and Rubio have rechristened that disregard as the long overdue emergence of an America First commitment from subordination to an old “rules-based order.” During that order, we are asked to believe, “trading partners, allies and friends” exploited and humiliated the US. Trump, Vance, and Rubio will now stop all that. Perhaps they borrowed the concept of a period of sustained humiliation used by Xi Jinping for China before 1949, a far more apt usage of the term.

Ignoring laws too, in the context of a declining empire and economy, only exacerbates uncertainties. They will produce policy failures and reversals in 2026 similar to those the Trump regime suffered in 2025. Already well underway, the decline sweeps away the few obstacles still in its path. Its economic, political and cultural power already reduced, a desperate US turns on its erstwhile allies, semi-colonies, and remaining trading partners seeking tribute to offset its decline. Only its global military power seems still formidable. Yet there too the Russian-Chinese alliance and its BRICS allies are catching up quickly.

The last piece of the puzzle entitled “how will all this end?” concerns domestic conditions in the US. The decline appears there in deepening social divisions. Earlier, when less developed, divisions were papered over by the relatively untroubled oscillation between traditional Democrats and Republicans. Now they have become extremely aggravated, producing Trump and his MAGA base. Both of them in turn provoke ever more divisions. They battle Republicans decry them as RINOs, but also Democratic centrists, Democratic progressives and those they denounce synonymously as socialists, Marxists, terrorists, radical leftists, anarchists, communists, and so on. Meanwhile, the rest of the world reacts to the trade and tariff wars by retaliating against specific groups inside the US (farmers, energy producers, alcohol exporters, winter wheat importers, and so on). Those groups turn against specific tariffs. From there it is a short step to questioning the entire global strategy etc. Trump’s domestic support erodes.

Lastly, there are the self-inflicted wounds of mass disaffection. The “ICEcapades” in Minneapolis strengthened animosity toward Trump’s government around the immigration issue and how to deal with it. Trump’s transparent efforts to keep the public from knowing the full extent of his (and his friends’ and colleagues’) involvements with Jeffrey Epstein’s horrors are crumpling support. Least recognized but perhaps most important is the growing awareness among all employees - but especially at all government levels - that Trump’s policies threaten jobs. Their unions are striking and the total US unionized labor force grew by 500,000 in 2025. When several unions joined the people of Minneapolis in organizing effective, mass opposition to ICE, a coalition undertook a renewal that can change US politics.

An old debate stresses that both “objective” and “subjective” conditions must be ripe for revolution to be possible. Empire decline, now abetted by self-isolating economic, political and cultural policies, is maturing the objective conditions. Subjectively, denial of the decline as official policy in both major parties combines with the demonization of scapegoats (first immigrants, then the expanding numbers of Americans who oppose scapegoating them). What results are fast-deepening social divisions across the US. Ever more of the population senses deepening social problems. Ever more of that population sees the mounting failure of dominant political parties and institutions to solve those problems. The need for basic social change becomes urgent.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Subscribe

Share

31

10



######## rwe_5
Richard Wolff's avatar]

Richard Wolff

Feb 02, 2026

23

1

11

Share

[]

A year into Trump’s second term clarifies what his presidency aims to accomplish. On the one hand and widely overemphasized are his initiatives and their impacts. Far less well recognized are how received conditions and conventional Party politics in the US produced Trump and most of what he does. Underlying both Trump, US politics, and their whole environment are the basic changes in US capitalism that both shape and reflect its declining place in the world. These include especially certain class, race and gender aspects of those changes.

Trump’s Republican Party (GOP) never stopped being a coalition. On the one hand, the Party’s major donors have mostly been leading members of the class of private US employers. Those donors provide the key funds with which higher Party officials organize and mobilize the other side of the coalition, particular blocs of voters. Major donors divide into three groups: those who give to the GOP, those who give to the DEMs, and those who patronize both. Both parties use the money from their major donors to organize their mass of voters, win offices, and thereby reward those donors. The GOP and DEMs compete for voters using their respective donors’ money. The donor class’s donations protect it from serious or sustained criticism by either major US Party. They are costs of that class’s hegemony. Neither coalition dares offer such criticism for fear of thereby threatening its capacity for donations and thereby the party’s very survival.

From time to time, one Party performs better than the other in working this “Coalition-Politics”. It gets more money from donors and/or undercuts donations to the other party. It is more successful than the other party in securing or building blocs of voters. The other party then fights back. In the decades before Trump, the Republican Party coalition declined. While the GOP delivered dutifully to its major donors, it merely fed symbols more than changed realities to its voting masses. The GOP loudly opposed abortions but never actually stopped them. It supported fundamentalist Christianity but more in words than deeds. It endorsed neo-liberal globalization and celebrated the profits that it brought to its donors, but it barely acknowledged, far less compensated, the losses globalization imposed on the US working class.

Over recent decades, the DEMs coalition also endorsed neo-liberal globalization and likewise celebrated its profitability as if it were “good for all America.” Some DEM leaders gave lip-service-recognition to workers’ losses from globalization. They likewise claimed “concern” that globalization aggravated US inequalities of wealth and income and “hollowed out of the middle class.” However DEMs offered little more than rhetoric, since big donations from globalization’s leading beneficiaries remained a key DEM party goal. US workers hurt by globalization thus felt increasingly alienated, disappointed and betrayed by the DEM coalition. Meanwhile that coalition redirected its focus and appeal toward women and racial/ethnic minorities as voting blocs. Opposing the discrimination those blocs had long suffered in the US entailed far less risk of losing major corporate and individual donors. Only a relatively few voices on the progressive left of the DEM coalition criticized globalization’s costly impacts on the working class. DEM leadership undertook only modest “progressive” steps (although often claiming to do more than those steps actually achieved). For not really doing more, of course, DEMs blamed the GOP.

So long as this sort of politics worked for the DEMs, the GOP adopted a “me too” approach suggesting sympathy for the interests and women and minorities. But once decades of globalization had immiserated sufficiently large (and especially male, white) sections of the US working class, Republicans changed their approach. They increasingly turned the DEMs’ appeals to women and non-whites against the DEMs by portraying those appeals as indicating that DEMs had abandoned the white, male, Christian working class. Enter Donald Trump who rode this turn the furthest by sharply ejecting the traditional GOP leadership (Bush family etc.) that had hesitated to go that far.

The Trump-led GOP coalition seeks the same donors from the same class (employers) as always. That coalition likewise seeks the votes of largely white blocs of workers (especially male, fundamentalist Christian, super patriotic, etc.). However, unlike traditional Republicans, Trumpers go much further in pandering to the more extreme among those voters, those dissatisfied with mere symbolism. They promise to go far beyond the limits of the traditional GOP leadership to reverse all they blame on the DEMs (and especially on Obama and Biden).

Trump’s GOP loudly proclaims that DEMs care only about females, black and brown workers, and immigrants. Trump’s GOP charges that DEMs get votes by getting jobs and incomes for these females, black, brown and immigrant workers (illegal as well as legal). Moreover, Trump repeats, those jobs and income came at the expense of the jobs and incomes for male, white, Christian workers and their communities. Republicans successfully blamed DEMs for the suffering of white, male Christian workers who lost their jobs to globalization since the 1980s. DEMS minimally criticized the US employer class (to secure its donors) and focused instead on attacking China (as if the decision to move jobs from the US to Asia was China’s rather than a decision made by the heads of US corporations).

Trump’s serious campaigns for president arrived after several decades of GOP and DEM coalitions alternating in power. Across those decades, US capitalism had benefited from ongoing US government support. Huge tax cuts and government spending programs boosted corporate profits. Huge government bailouts followed stock and credit market crashes. Both parties endorsed, advanced, and protected neo-liberal globalization as they competed for major donors. In contrast, both doled out merely symbolic gestures to their respective voters. For not doing more, each Party attacked the other in a blame game that proved decreasingly effective. Slowly but steadily increasing portions of the voting blocs inside both Parties’ coalitions became alienated from voting and party politics altogether.

Trump’s personality and personal beliefs fit and therefore served the historical moment. Forces had accumulated that understood (or at least vaguely sensed) the need for US capitalism to get more support than that provided by both Parties’ traditional coalitions. The decline of US capitalism relative to China, on the one hand, generated those forces. On the other hand, so did decades of decline in the numbers, well-being, and political identifications of unionized US manufacturing workers Those forces found Trump, an outsider to both coalitions, willing to go much further than traditional Party leaderships to rebuild the numbers and commitment of their respective coalition voters.

The Republican wing of those forces found immense potential in Trump’s extreme hostility toward immigrants, apparent sympathy for white supremacy, support for fundamentalist Christianity, and disdain for traditional leaders of both major parties. That wing was thrilled by his promises to ban abortions, celebrate fundamentalist Christianity and the NRA, increase tolerance for white supremacy, and reject “Diversity, Equity and Inclusion” (DEI) and ecological initiatives as hoaxes or worse. These were just the ticket to reanimate the GOP’s voting bloc base. Trump reiterated promises to the Party’s major donors that he would deliver historic tax cuts, subsidies, and massive deregulation of their business practices. With their donations, of course, Trump’s extremism could secure the votes needed to have the US government deliver on promises made to both parts of the Republican coalition.

In the views of those who early found and supported him, Trump had what it would take to rescue the Republican Party from a coalition gone stale. via neglect of its voter blocs’ sufferings from neo-liberal globalization. That rescue took the form of ending the GOPs neglect of globalization’s victims while seeking to re-engage the more extreme right wing chiefly by talking much more bluntly than traditional politicians of either Party had dared. He mocked them for their timidity. He defeated them in Republican primaries. He excoriated his DEM opponents for their favoring immigrants, women and non-whites. He mostly blamed them – not big business - for the losses suffered by white, male Christian workers. His aggressive language toward all conventional politicians who opposed him aimed to prove to the masses that he would deliver what earlier Republicans had failed to do. Meanwhile, he kept reassuring the billionaires that they would receive enhanced riches for their donations.

Bernie Sanders – a “progressive” Independent who caucuses with the Democrats and describes himself as “socialist” - offered the DEM coalition a different kind of rejuvenation. He too promised much more to the DEM masses of voters than traditional DEM leaders had dared to do. What sharply differentiated Sanders were his clearly explicit criticisms of the US employer class. In his view, that class did not need or deserve lavish gifts (huge tax cuts and subsidies) from elected politicians. It was instead to be blamed and held accountable for the costs that its profit-raising decisions imposed on the working class. Sanders’ presidential campaigns showed both that mass support of its voting blocs could be rebuilt and that such support could deliver many millions in small donations

Unlike the traditional GOP leaders who failed to stop Trump and got displaced by his Make America Great Again (MAGA) movement, the traditional DEM leaders grasped how to save themselves from a comparable displacement. They committed to destroy Sanders’ presidential campaigns. Despite that, other progressive Democrats and socialists followed Sanders. Victories like those of Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez in Congress and Zohran Mamdani in New York City have further developed what Sanders started. So too did the mass mobilization in Minneapolis in late January 2026 against Trump’s ICE army with its creative and effective use of the general strike.

Polling as well as other evidence suggests that Sanders’ “progressive” wing of the Democratic Party is gaining popularity both within the Party and generally. They may well become the left-wing equivalent of the MAGA masses supporting Trump. If confrontations escalate, the US employer class may then throw its full weight on the MAGA side and fulfill the fascistic inclinations already in play on that side. As great American artists have insisted before, “it can happen here.” Trump’s strategy will then be internal repression to end the socially disruptive confrontations threatening the MAGA project, the system’s profits and possibly rising to challenge the capitalist system itself.

Trump’s internal program is still largely intact early in 2026. However, the continuing decline of the US empire and of its relative position in the world economy takes its toll. So too does mounting social opposition to Trump’s “handling” of the Epstein scandal, opposition of many inside as well as outside MAGA against the Israel-US alliance over Gaza, and widespread revulsion against ICE’s violence and its mission. Always a candidate for action to distract from mounting domestic problems, foreign affairs attracted the Trump team (despite the failure to end the Ukraine war quickly as he had promised). However, bombing Iran (jointly with Israel), abducting Venezuelan president Maduro, threatening Greenland, Denmark and NATO over his intended “taking” of Greenland, bombing a Nigerian village, threatening to reclaim Panama, threatening war with Iran, menacing Canada and Mexico (and, of course, Cuba yet again) have proven to be unpopular in the US. So successive polls show.

Most intractable are the economic problems that beset Trump’s regime. Even if the Supreme Court validates Trump’s global imposition of tariffs, their effects are having troubling results for Trump. Far from enough new revenue will be generated to do much to reduce US budget deficits. Indeed, Trump’s proposed War Department budget increase of $600 billion will worsen US deficits significantly. That budget increase alone is several times larger than estimates of what Trump’s tariffs will yield. Likewise, savings from Musk’s DOGE storm fell far short of generating the hyped and hoped budget cuts. Nations opposing the US takeover of Greenland led to a free trade deal between the European Union and Mercosur and renewed trade negotiations between China, on the one hand, and Germany, France, and the UK. Trump’s maneuvers to control exports of Nvidia’s semi-conductor chips once again led to China’s retaliation around rare earths. Finally, US tariffs and threats against Canada have now produced new trade deals between Canada and China. The economic impacts of these and similar deals already under consideration threaten significant long-term economic damages and costs.

Soon, the rise of China and its BRICS allies combined with the decline of the US and what may be left of the G7 alliance will shift in a basic way. One historical epoch is fading while another is replacing it. We are at inflection points where quantitative becomes qualitative and where change shifts from slow to fast. Trying to hold all this back is the goal of current political moves toward various kinds of authoritarianism in many capitalisms. But for many of those authoritarianisms, it is too late. They have inherited too many overlapping problems from capitalism’s decline. They have too little in the way of real options to solve them.

Socialisms of various kinds, varyingly infused with different nations’ histories and characteristics, are preparing themselves to replace today’s authoritarian efforts to hold back historic change. Those Socialisms self-preparations entail a return to full commitments to democracy in politics but also in economics. The latter includes the democratization of the internal organization of enterprises (factories, offices, and stores). Socialisms are becoming the champions of democracy just as capitalism’s self-preservation forces it toward authoritarianism. Socialisms respond to their own histories by moving more towards democracy while capitalisms respond to their histories by shifting more towards authoritarian social structures. Such ironies of modern history reflect a profound period of change, full of abundant dangers but also of historic opportunities for a new and better world.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Subscribe

Share

23

1

11



######## rwe_6
Richard Wolff's avatar]

Richard Wolff

Nov 28, 2025

58

11

Share

[]

A mid-length answer connects certain similarities in the histories of US and British capitalisms. Britain’s declining empire and economy led to Boris Johnson, blaming Europe for that decline, cutting off from Europe via Brexit, and Britain’s downward self-isolation since. The US’s declining empire and economy led to Trump, his blaming that decline on the whole world, cutting off from and punishing the world via tariff and trade wars, and the resulting US downward self-isolation.

A fuller response is more complicated and requires specifying the historical context. Before the 1970s, US citizens had long been told about the exceptional virtues and benefits of US capitalism. We had achieved unprecedented success, the world’s only truly “middle-class” society. Extremes of wealth and poverty barely existed except for a very few superrich and a few very poor. After the 1970s, we were told a different story, namely that the US government had excessively intervened from the 1930s to the 1970s in the workings of “our optimally efficient private enterprise economy.” Regaining prosperity required ending such government interventions. Since the 1970s, terms like neo-liberalism, globalization, free-trade, and privatization became prominent markers of US capitalism, differentiating it from the 1930s to 1975 when the state’s economic interventions had won praise. After the 1970s, freedom from those government interventions became the dominant dogma governing state economic policy.

d@w's Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.

Subscribe

Before the 1970s, private capitalism had widely seemed the problem and government intervention had seemed the necessary solution. After the 1970s, the reverse view prevailed. It insisted that government intervention was the problem and privatization was the solution. This reversal reminded many of an important earlier reversal: after 1945, when the US and the USSR reversed their status as great allies to became instead the opposite, great enemies.

After the 1970s, the US government increasingly resumed its pre-Great Depression limitations on economic intervention (associated with classical, i.e. British, liberalism). Increasingly too, after the 1970s, the 1930s New Deal seemed a distant, long-ago emergency time. Its reforms were considered to no longer be needed or worse, deemed counterproductive. A few Depression era reforms survived because of working class pressures from below plus widespread apprehensions that they might well prove useful to constrain future economic downturns. The US business community had never wanted the New Deal, resented its reforms, and recoiled at the taxes on their profits that helped pay for them. That community’s political goals after 1945 boiled down to undoing the New Deal. That had to be done slowly, gradually, and cautiously for political reasons from 1945 through the 1970s. After that, with Reagan’s election, it could and did accelerate. It has done so still more in Trump’s second term.

After the 1970s, US capitalism’s ceaseless relocation of capital investments from lower to higher profit opportunities increasingly took two prominent forms. First was automation: employers sequentially installed computers, robots and AI. Second was globalization: employers increasingly went beyond US borders. They moved jobs abroad and especially to Asia and Latin America. US military bases by the hundreds, originally justified after 1945 as needed to contain the Soviet Union and communism’s expansion, revealed their other and more important purpose. They served nicely to enforce a world trade system (later exalted as a “rules-based international order”) committed to US-led and US-defined “free” trade.

Tying everything together ideologically, a new dogma effectively reversed its 1930s to 1970s predecessor. The old dogma had admitted that private capitalism sometimes encountered serious business cycle problems. For example, those in the 1930s had threatened capitalism itself. Keynes had shown the world how to prevent or at least greatly moderate them. Timely government intervention, monetary and fiscal, could do the trick. Central banks could manipulate the quantity of money in circulation and interest rates to control capitalism’s cycles. Governments could likewise maneuver tax collections, spending programs, and resulting borrowing toward the same end. For a while it was widely believed that capitalism’s long-standing problem of cyclical instability had been solved. Leading US economists, among others, went to work to persuade and explain the Keynesian solution to business, political, and academic leaders. Most of the rest of the economics profession followed by teaching Keynesian economics to successive generations of college students. From the 1930sto the 1970s, economists were mostly the old dogma’s priests.

At the margins of the US economics profession from 1945 to 1975 were some who rejected the dominant old dogma more or less. Among them Milton Friedman refused the premise that capitalism had somehow “failed” in the 1930s. It could have rallied, he believed, to overcome a cyclical downturn as it had many times before. Indeed, he and his co-authors labored to suggest how and why governmental interventions did more to worsen the Great Depression than to prevent or moderate it. Marxist economists such as Paul M. Sweezy, admired Keynes’ critical insights into capitalism’s cyclical dysfunction yet disagreed that his work had or could overcome that cyclical instability. Still other marginal economists demurred, but even taken altogether, the marginalized economists could not undermine the Keynesian dogma. For decades, government leaders believed that they and their business and academic advisers “knew” how to manage capitalism to end its dangerous instability. They ruled the US (and beyond) after the 1930s Great Depression.

What finally undid that dogma were two key movements that converged in the 1970s. The first was the recovery of all the major economies that had destroyed one another in World War 2 (especially Japan, Germany, UK, France, and others except the US). While US capitalism had been the only globally dominant economy from 1945 to 1975, serious foreign competition resumed for the US again by the end of that period. The second development that undermined the Keynesian dogma was technological development: chiefly the computer and jet air travel. They enabled employers to raise profits (1) by exporting jobs to lower-waged regions overseas and (2) by automation that replaced workers with computers, robots and now AI. US employers profited from relocating abroad because they thereby escaped the high wages and costly benefits that US workers had won in rough union and class struggles with employers before and during the 1930s Great Depression. They also escaped the costs of ecological protection.

Of course, automation and job exports represented costs to workers who lost jobs, to their families, and to the businesses relying on their purchasing power. Employers targeted especially the highest-paid workers since replacing them by automation or overseas relocation boosted employers’ profits the most. Often unionized, those workers tried to resist and pushed back. In response, globalizing employers mobilized and funded a massive ideological program to undermine those workers’ resistance. It updated classical defenses of capitalism whenever its social costs, such as automation and relocation, became more burdensome.

A positively defined term, globalization, came to the fore. It replaced terms like imperialism and colonialism that had acquired increasingly pejorative connotations. Economists celebrated globalization for bringing everyone greater efficiency via free trade. The same economists denounced national regulations and controls for restraining global capitalist expansion and the prosperity it delivered. In the US, enthusiasts for capitalism extolled immense gains awaiting capitalists who expanded inside the US and then globally. Not only would profits soar, but societies as a whole – all classes - would benefit. Globalization was the greatest of historical tides that lifted all boats.

Within the US employer class, the risk-takers went first. They moved enterprises, built them, or partnered with existing enterprises in China, India, Brazil, etc. The low wages there, accommodating governments, and access to their large and fast-growing markets proved uncommonly profitable. That forced their more risk-averse competitors back in the US to join the relocation. Their exodus shaped the US and most of the world’s other economies over the last half-century.

Yet right from the beginning there were victims and critics. They tended to arise from among the highest-paid job-holders: unionized, white, male factory workers. They had risen to the top of the working class during the century before the 1970s. There they encountered a tendency of capitalism bitter for workers. The more successfully US laborers had struggled to raise their wages, the greater the incentive that resulted for employers to fire them and substitute machines or cheaper foreign workers.

Globalization as an efficiency-maximizing kind of capitalism became an ideological campaign slogan for US corporations relocating overseas. Celebrating globalization spread from corporate leaders to podcast hosts, journalists, academics, and politicians. The voices of those who objected and criticized globalization found few outlets. Globalization’s celebrants insisted that everyone everywhere would benefit.

The working class, bearing the brunt of globalization, slowly but increasingly, turned against it. The richest 10 per cent of Americans, invested in the stock market, did not. Corporate gains boosted by relocating production abroad (firing workers and thereby saving on wage costs) enabled higher dividends, capital gains from appreciating stock, and soaring executive pay packages. But that trickle down got little further than the US richest 10 percent. US capitalism thus devolved over many years into two economies. Today, in the rich one, 10% of US citizens account for 50% of total consumer spending. In the poor one, the other 90% do the other half of consumer spending.

For those deprived of good jobs, appealing to their union leaders, both major parties’ establishments, and broad public opinion yielded little. Most unions had long since narrowed their focus and targets to more immediate gains workers could still get or to reducing further losses. Unions devoted relative few resources to educating members on, let alone mobilizing them around, international issues. Most Republicans had long sided with employer interests and thus readily endorsed globalization. For many Democrats, the long post-1950s decline of the labor union movement deprived them of their labor base and also of large numbers of their most skilled union-donated campaign workers. Democratic party leaders’ resulting turn to corporate donors led them increasingly to mimic Republicans’ endorsements of globalization. The large but amorphous and disorganized US left made some criticisms of corporate globalization but managed only sporadic resistance.

Globalization proved an effective ideological cover as the US replaced the old European empires across the 20^(th) century. The US presented its global position and resulting actions – economic but also political and military - as so many steps leading to “global freedom” as they “helped” liberate other nations caught in doubly backward conditions. Backward economically because they had not sufficiently developed the private capitalist enterprises needed for a “modern, developed economy.” They were not yet integrated into that maximally efficient world economy that globalization could and would achieve. They were backward politically because they had not sufficiently developed the necessary “liberal democratic institutions” credited for making the US the leading global model economy for our times. Establishing US-style “freedom” and “capitalism” – often merged into an identity - became the globally necessary road to social success and progress. Saying so won Nobel prizes.

Until that road no longer seemed necessary. A confluence of social changes finally turned many in the US against globalization while many in China turned in favor of it. China’s state-led and sustained high rates of economic growth after the 1970s plus the relocation to China of many US, European and Japanese private capitalist enterprises combined to make China the manufacturing powerhouse of today’s world economy. “Socialism with Chinese characteristics” – China’s official self-definition – is a hybrid of state-owned and operated enterprises alongside private foreign and domestic capitalist enterprises. Supervisory economic planning and management of that hybrid by the Chinese state and the Chinese Communist Party combined to make China’s economy the world’s fastest growing during the 21^(st) century’s first generation. Ironically, the stable hegemony of the US dollar provided the context for China’s remarkable growth.

A key factor distinguished Chinese from other Global South circumstances. The West had denied post-1949 China the foreign aid and development “assistance” deployed elsewhere. Its resulting self-reliance sped China’s growth. Even the initial assistance China obtained from the USSR vanished when the two nations’ relationship deteriorated (roughly 1960 to 1989). Another key factor was China’s commitment to national economic planning before and after it allowed, invited, and facilitated a private capitalist sector of both domestic and foreign enterprises. Chinese economic growth displays a remarkable mastery of both economic nationalism and openness to the world economy, both state and private enterprises. All were integrated to serve maximum economic growth.

In contrast, the US and the collective West, 70 years after World War 2, transitioned from free trade toward economic nationalism under Presidents Biden and especially Trump. That transition flowed chiefly from (1) steadily rising working class opposition to the globalization after the 1970s in the US and Europe, and (2) growing Chinese challenges to the global dominance of the US in the world economy.

Angry white male unionized (and thus relatively well-paid) factory workers, displaced by automation and globalization, knew that it was their employers who made the decisions that displaced them. They also knew that profit considerations motivated those decisions. However, they also feared the backlash that would crash in on anyone who blamed employers, the employer class, or the capitalist system for anything negative. 75 years of Cold War ideology had taught the US working class how ferociously the US’s employer class could mobilize the mass media, academia, and most major social institutions to demonize and repress anything that even hinted of anti-capitalism or socialism.

Therefore, US workers hurt by automation or job exports rarely chose to blame corporate owners and leaders. They rarely opposed free trade, globalization, multiculturalism, neoliberalism, nor the anti-communism/socialism usually woven into them. The employer class and its media, political and academic spokespersons, most Republicans and Democrats, all celebrated globalization as the cause and expression of a wonderfully successful capitalism. It brought material prosperity and political freedom. Blaming capitalists was therefore considered irrational, perverse or both.

The economic theories of the academics simply reinforced the way the economy and politics blocked any revolt. Generations of leaders in business, politics, and mass media learned in their college courses that private enterprises in markets minimally regulated by any state apparatus achieve the “maximum possible utility.” In short capitalism was the human race’s greatest and finest achievement. Criticizing it thus became, for many, literally unthinkable.

Trump explained to victimized US workers what caused their economic pains: foreign immigrants, China, and indeed foreign nations generally, including even Canada and Mexico. For decades, he said, all had economically cheated and abused the US. Traditional Republicans and Democrats had been complicit. He presented himself as the new and different kind of politician who alone would end that abuse and the pains it caused. He would “make America great again,’ and the “rest of the world will have to pay for it.” His means: anti-immigrant walls supplemented by mass deportation, tariff walls and trade wars that would reshore manufacturing (i.e. secure, high-paying) jobs, and reduce federal budget deficits. All that would revive US capitalism and its global dominance; the decline of the empire would be reversed.

More recently, Trump broadened his list of primary targets to blame for US social distress: protesters against ICE deportation actions and critics of his other policies (especially “efficiency” firings of federal employees and government “shutdowns”). He called them all “radical left lunatics.” In the case of New York’s new socialist mayor, elected with more votes than all other candidates combined, Trump’s denunciations peaked in calling him a “communist.” The McCarthyite tragedy of the 1950s returns, but this time already well en route to becoming a farce.

Trump has likewise sharply increased the severity of punishment he decrees for those he decides are “evil-doers.” He has summarily executed nearly 100 persons in fishing boats in the Caribbean and Pacific whom he has called “drug traffickers in narco-boats.” No trials, no evidence, no lawyers, no judge: Trump simply ordered the killings in international waters (executions without trial or evidence). Trump has likewise attacked or threatened to attack foreign governments (Iran, Venezuela, Nigeria, Panama, Greenland, Mexico, and Canada).

Trump’s nationalist political theater includes repetitions of his belief that tariffs punish those foreign countries he blames. He seemed not to understand, as every undergraduate economics student learns, that tariffs imposed by the US government fall only on the US businesses or individuals who import goods and services. By saying or implying that foreigners pay his tariffs, Trump makes it appear that he thereby punishes them for causing US workers’ distress. Of course, Trump’s tariffs are a major new tax imposed by a Republican president on US businesses and individuals (those who import tariffed items). For opponents of taxation and Trump followers who blame foreigners for US problems and suffering, it is very politically convenient and comforting to imagine that Trump’s tariffs hurt them.

US tariffs can also hurt foreign economies in so far as US buyers order fewer foreign-made products. This can happen if US importers raise their prices for imported goods and services as a way to pass on (recoup) their tariff costs. To the rest of the world, Trump’s tariffs were aggressive economic warfare: risking losses for them to secure economic gains for the US. The world awaits how each foreign country will decide whether, how, and when to retaliate and how badly retaliations will impact the US economy.

One last point about tariffs can show how systematically Trump protects and serves the employer class in the US. In contrast, what he does for his MAGA base is mostly symbolic and theatrical. Tariffs are taxes that fall directly on US businesses and so might have been expected to anger and provoke them. Trump avoided that problem by means of his “big beautiful tax bill” passed by Congress before Trump presented his tariffs. That bill extended the huge tax cuts for businesses and the rich (originally scheduled to expire in 2025) that were Trump’s first act in his first term as president. That tax bill also provided further tax cuts for them. In other words, Trump cut all business taxes before his tariffs raised them on business imports. The net effect on business and the rich was to protect them even as they proceeded to pass on the cost of the tariffs by raising retail prices for the US employee majority.

Most Republican and Democratic leaders (Bushes, Clintons, Obama) kept on supporting globalization after the 1970s. Increasingly the same donors funded both parties, and those donors were globalization’s chief beneficiaries. The leaders marginalized the few voices that publicly blamed employers for choosing to automate or relocate abroad. Those few voices (Bernie Sanders, Alexandre Ocasio-Cortez or Zohran Mamdani) provoked intense hostility from party leaders. Trump’s rare outbursts focused only and briefly on particular companies, not on the employer class per se as the key and therefore blameworthy decision-makers.

China’s economic growth after the 1980s was unprecedented in its speed. In addition, China built an economic alliance initially with Brazil, Russia, India, and South Africa known as the BRICS; it kept adding various members into the new century. By 2020 the aggregate GDP of China and its BRCS allies had caught up to the aggregate of the US and its G7 allies. Since 2020, China and its BRICS allies have outgrown the US and its G7 allies each year. Before 2010, China was viewed by most in the West as just another poor subordinate Global South nation slowly being “modernized” thanks to the West’s globalization/free trade program. Unlike them, however, China grew much faster. “Modernization theories and theorists” had often expected China’s economic development to be slower. It was, after all, cut off from much Western assistance, trade and investment for ideological reasons. Its communist party, presiding over its “socialism with Chinese characteristics” was thought to hamper growth with regulations and planning.

For US and European leaders, as China’s development progressed into the 21^(st) century, it was redefined from a subordinate nation into an evil and aggressive dictatorship. Most established political leaders in the West accused China of outcompeting the West economically by means that were illegal or unfair. That soon broadened to accusing China of threatening the West politically, ideologically, and even militarily. China’s endorsement of free trade (as the global context for its own spectacular economic development over the last 30-40 years) helped to provoke the West’s turning away from it toward economic nationalism instead.

Already during Obama’s presidency, 2009-2017, it became common to hear of the “need to pivot toward China” as the key adversary for the current century. China’s embrace of “free trade” and globalization was interpreted as part of its adversarial position. Of course, many larger US employers who had invested heavily in China after the 1970s also still supported free trade. Those investments assumed access to China’s expanding market plus the profitable export of their outputs back to the US market. Yet China’s rise steadily undercut the West’s support for free trade. Increasing numbers of US business leaders questioned free trade orthodoxy, became supporters of a US turn to economic nationalism and supported Trump as its emerging champion.

To conclude, statistical projections mostly agree that China’s dominance in world industrial production will grow between now and 2030. Already, China’s industrial output exceeds that of the US, Germany, Japan, and South Korea, combined. [https://www.economist.com/international/2025/09/23/a-made-in-china-plan-for-world-domination] There is little evidence to support the possibility that the US can or will reverse its decline relative to China. That decline will impede the reshoring of US manufacturing, balancing the federal budget, and offsetting the likely employment impacts of the AI revolution and other nations’ retaliations to US tariffs. The US working class might then shift leftward politically to solve the problems that Trump’s rightward turn failed to overcome.

A new New Deal (Green or otherwise) might then emerge much as the original did in the 1930s. Then the US working class responded to a sustained capitalist crisis by surging sharply to the left around the New Deal Coalition (the CIO unions, two Socialist parties and the Communist Party). Today’s coalition would differ from its predecessor because its activists will have learned key lessons from the 1930s as well as from the subsequent period that undid so much of the New Deal. Chief among those lessons is that capitalism itself must be put into question.

That means the new New Deal will not leave corporations in private hands. After 1945, corporate capitalism’s major shareholders and top managers had retained their social positions as receivers of the system’s corporate profits. That position gave them every incentive to protect and boost their profits by, among other strategies, using them to undo the regulations, tax structures, and indeed the whole progressive spirit of the New Deal. That is what they succeeded in doing over the last 75 years. Those 75 years also taught us why we must put capitalism itself in question. Many of us have done that and reached conclusions guiding our contributions to social change now.

The organization of enterprises – factories, offices, and stores – can no longer entail a basic division between a class of employers and a class of employees. Their consequentially different class interests and conflicts provoke and produce capitalism’s difficulties and the obstacles to overcoming them. Reforms of capitalism were the experiment undertaken in and by the New Deal. Those reforms left unchallenged capitalism’s basic class structure. History – the undoing of the New Deal over the last 75 years - has shown those reforms to be insufficient.

Our next step is to democratize enterprises as a needed addition to the 1930s-type reforms of capitalism so that they do not again get undone. If profits flow to the workers in enterprises where employers and employees are the same people, equal components of a democratically organized community, they will not be used to undo reforms generated by those workers. Changing the class structure of enterprises will ramify throughout the society experiencing such change. Democratizing enterprises will make the largely formal democracy elsewhere in that society far more real than it has ever been.

A genuinely new New Deal should remember and build on all the old New Deal accomplished. Yet it must also not repeat its crucial mistake in not challenging capitalism itself. Evidence is accumulating that that crucial lesson is being learned.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Share

Subscribe

58

11



######## rwe_7
Richard Wolff's avatar]

Richard Wolff

Aug 15, 2025

48

6

17

Share

[]

The defining moment of 20th-century capitalism was its great crash, 1929–1941, also known as the Great Depression. Capitalism’s celebrants and advocates had prepared neither themselves nor their followers for the possibility of such a collapse. Likewise, their repression and ignorance of capitalism’s major critics, and especially the Marxists, only deepened that lack of preparedness. One crucial result was the sequence of ineffective governmental efforts to render the crash short and shallow. Despite inventing some useful government initiatives, government policies to overcome the crash failed across the 1930s. That failure only deepened the Depression’s lasting impression on everyone. Some registered that impression consciously and explicitly; most did not.

As is well known, only World War II finally pulled the capitalist system out of its collapse. Millions of workers, including many of the unemployed, were drafted into the military. Millions more of the unemployed got either new jobs producing weapons and supplies for the military or replaced workers who had been drafted. The fact that it took a war to finally overcome the Great Depression guaranteed that when World War II ended in 1945 and a beloved wartime president died, the desperate national fear was that the country would return to the Great Depression.

The Truman and subsequent administrations groped their way quickly to the only solution they could imagine or support. The boost to the economy provided by government spending on World War II was funded in large part by wartime borrowing. Running federal budget deficits to increase military spending was the historical moment’s solution. The inconvenient fact that, post-World War II, no actual war justified such spending provoked a substitute justification. It emerged from and reinforced the heavily advertised push toward consumerism of the immediate post-war years. Alliances of U.S. business leaders (including owners of media firms), their subservient politicians, and equally subservient academics rebranded the Soviet Union from a loyal wartime ally against fascism to a demonic, evil empire threatening to overthrow the United States. The same alliance rebranded U.S. communists, socialists, and unionists: instead of militant leaders of the New Deal coalition working with President Franklin D. Roosevelt they became traitorous “un-American” agents of the same evil, demonic empire.

Because policymakers feared capitalism’s regression back into depression, they adopted an aggressive military Keynesianism. That is, they deliberately spent more than total federal tax revenues, thereby running a government budget deficit to stimulate the economy. The politically easiest way to justify the borrowing to enable that excess of government expenditures above revenues was to argue that national security required the military. Paying for wars and defense via taxes risked provoking more domestic opposition than paying for them by government borrowing. (Adopting the kind of expansionary fiscal policy proposed by John Maynard Keynes, but embodying it in and rationalizing it by military spending, is what we mean by “military Keynesianism.”)

Spending extravagantly on the military—more than all other major nations by large margins—and increasing that spending significantly and regularly, the United States committed itself to military Keynesianism shortly after World War II ended. It has sustained that policy commitment ever since. The institutional foundation for that purpose was already taking shape clearly enough for President Dwight Eisenhower (1953–1961) to recognize and name it the “military-industrial complex” and warn against it in his farewell address. U.S. politicians would generously fund the military. Military contracts would bring profits to key basic industries across the United States. In turn, those industries’ donations would fund the appropriately pro-military politicians and remove dissenters. Military spending recast as Keynesian fiscal policy would function as a useful veneer, much as anti-communism did, to justify the perpetual war economy as a necessary protection against America’s enemies, foreign and domestic.

Of course, other contemporary influences—political, cultural, and economic—also played a role in overdetermining the U.S. fiscal policy of military Keynesianism. Other treatments of this period and these issues usually overstress the other influences and downplay the economic factors. That is why my stress here is precisely on what those other treatments ignore or underplay.

In the immediate post-World War II period government spending took other nonmilitary forms that are well known. These included the G.I. Bill, which funded college educations for returning soldiers, and the building of public housing and interstate highways. Because these and other programs lacked sufficiently widespread political support or well-developed industrial connections, and because of the anti-government ideology pushed by the Republicans, they failed to sustain themselves past the 1950s and 1970s, let alone grow.

Quite similarly, Europe had to process the trauma of capitalist collapse. However, it did so with a deeper and wider socialist and pro-labor tradition. It also had to absorb the costly final disintegration of what remained of its former empires. The United States took over those empires and operated an informal U.S. empire following the Bretton Woods Agreement in 1944. (The agreement established a new international monetary system and created the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.) That fit well with the United States wanting to play the role of global policeman, offering up the U.S. military to defend Europe from communism and the Soviet Union. Europe accepted the offer in good part because it enabled European governments to meet the social democratic demands of its people. Those demands had become ever louder while the political prestige of socialists and communists making the demands had been sharply enhanced by their leading roles in Europe’s anti-fascist resistance during World War II. What they saved in defense spending European leaders added to Marshall Plan loans to swiftly rebuild after the war, meet some of the social service demands of their people, and avoid heavily taxing corporations and the rich.

Military Keynesianism Today

Today, European leaders are borrowing the old playbook from U.S. leaders after World War II. President Donald Trump is withdrawing military protection for Europe while demanding that European countries fund their own militaries and NATO. Europe must therefore reorganize its finances or risk worsening an already serious economic decline, which has been exacerbated by the Ukraine War’s effects and has provoked social conflict. Europe is now copying what the United States did after 1945. To justify a European military Keynesianism to boost and support capitalist industries, European leaders have revived and surpassed the post-1945 U.S. in demonizing Russia as an evil, demonic threat to Europe. On that basis, Germany’s Chancellor Friedrich Merz has led the way in massive deficit borrowing for military rearmament. British Prime Minister Keir Starmer is also moving the United Kingdom in that direction as President Emmanuel Macron will try to do in France as well. Given the already significant amount of European government debt, to fund NATO plus military Keynesianism and not tax their corporations and their rich, the government cannot only finance these efforts with still more debt. It requires gutting government social services. What the recently created so-called “Department of Government Efficiency” (DOGE) is doing in the United States requires an equal effort in Europe, a revival of European austerity. The modalities of those efforts will vary but their underlying logic and goals are the same.

The basic message of this brief history of U.S. and European military Keynesianism is that modern capitalism has increasingly generated wars. World War I and World War II have been the worst so far. However, capitalism’s cyclical depressions, never yet avoided, have provoked the building of systemic supports based on military Keynesianism, or, as Trump used to called it, “endless wars.” They follow from the endless arms production, upgrading of arsenals, and arms races among nations that provoke disputes and lead to wars. Wars accelerate contracts to replace used-up arms and thereby profit military-industrial complexes. The capital-intensive tendencies of modern warfare require ever larger governmental spending. The wars facilitate deficit spending as much as the reverse.

Trump’s campaign boasts that he could and would quickly stop those endless wars have already been undone. Half a year after taking office in 2025, he has not ended the wars he inherited (Ukraine and Gaza) and has actually started another (Iran). The historical linkage between capitalism and the military-industrial complex, which has served as its necessary fiscal support, has proved to be stronger than any president, despite Eisenhower’s warning and Trump’s boasting. Both World War I and World War II led to huge gains for socialists who won over many with anti-war feelings to join them in blaming war on capitalism.

Alongside provoking war, capitalism provokes civil conflict through its tendency to produce income and wealth inequality. Sooner or later, massive opposition arises among populations in capitalist societies: against war, or against inequality, or against both. Those opposed recognize capitalism’s contradictions. The system produces wealth and growth but also their opposites via war and civil conflict. Sometimes that recognition produces no more than yet another effort to find a solution that leaves the capitalist system intact. The human race has been there and done that repeatedly, yet the contradictions repeat and deepen. Eventually, we may at least hope, the lesson learned will be that the capitalist system itself is the problem and that changing to another system is the best solution. We can do better than capitalism just as slaves eventually did better than slavery and serfs better than feudalism. British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher’s quip that “there is no alternative” was wrong. There are always alternatives.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Originally Published in Dollars & Sense (July/August Edition)

Subscribe

Share

48

6

17

