Chapter 1: The crisis of the West
Hi everyone and welcome back. We are joined today by the political economist, Professor Richard Wolf. Uh it's good to have you back. Uh how have you been?
Pretty well. I'm marveling uh each day at the uh behavior of my government and
then again also of you in Europe as well. Uh but otherwise, yes, I'm fine.
We are I I should mention we are in the final month before our elections here.
They will happen literally a month from now. And uh we are watching
what appears to be the determined death spiral of our great leader. And that is
a remarkable uh a remarkable display either of a level of corruption even we
will be surprised at or a death wish.
Yeah. I actually was going to get to uh this later but we might as well start there. That is I'm afraid that um you
know you see the problems of the Trump administration you have the similar developments in Europe. you know the chancellor Merz of Germany or or Macron
of France and well you know the whole list but it feels like it's a more problematic than simply one political party doing it poorly and handing over
power there's a seem to be a deeper crisis here that is one of political legitimacy one of yeah democratic
deficit uh you know sense by the population that the system needs a huge reforms that it's not merely an issue of
the this party or the opposition ition party. But again, the the system needs a larger shock. Uh again, I have an
aversion to revolutions because I I see more stability, incremental change. But uh but how do you see this commonality between the United States and Europe?
because all these economic problems, security issues, the concentration of wealth, the the I'm not sure the
political corruption, the this uh really powerful control over the media narrative. It it that there's something deeper it feels.
Well, let me offer uh something that you and I have discussed before uh as a way
Chapter 2: The legacy of global empire
of understanding it. Um, to be as blunt as I as possible in the hopes of
clarity, I'll try to spell it out in a minute. I believe that what we are
witnessing both in Europe and the United States, and I would add Japan, but leave it to the side for the moment. We are
witnessing what was in the cards for a long time. Namely the revolt of the
empire that is you know the European countries 18th 19th century maybe longer
created a world economy. They did. And to their credit, Markx himself said repeatedly that one of the historic
achievements of modern capitalism was the creation of a world economy, a world market in which we, you know, the
Africans would know what the Europeans are doing and the Asians would know what's happening in Latin America and all the rest of it. They would trade
with each other, invest in each other, learn from each other, etc., etc. Um,
and I agree with Markx. I think that is an achievement of modern capitalism and will always give some credit to
capitalism for having advanced the human experience beyond what slavery and feudalism who have their achievements
too, but that creating a world economy wasn't one of them. Okay.
The problem is the other side of the dialectic. They created a world economy, but they did so terribly badly. This is
a botched up job in which a tiny portion of the world economy they created
became very wealthy. North America, Western Europe, and Japan, and the rest
of the world became the heers of wood and the drawers of water. povertystricken from beginning to end.
You know, I think of Belgium. I my students want me always to give the example of Belgium. Belgium is a poor
corner of Northwest Europe, but once it acquires the Congo, it becomes a very
rich, solid place where the European Union now in Brussels can enjoy the
lovely medieval architecture and all the rest of it. So you had an ex an
explosion of a world economy horribly unequally organized. A terrible job.
It is even worse because when they run out of territory to take from local poor
people, they begin to bump against each other. The British Empire against the Russian, the French against the German,
all over the place. You know, my doctoral dissertation many years ago when I didn't understand most of this
was about East Africa and the clash of German and British imperialism in that part of the world. Okay.
It erupts and it finishes its historic mission by two of the worst wars the human race has ever conducted. World
Wars one and two were wars about empire by empires at the expense of empires.
When the dust cleared, all of the empires either in World War I or World
War II were gone. Japan, Germany, Italy, France, it didn't make any with one
exception, the United States. Because air technology and air power hadn't been developed, the United States had the
insulation of Atlantic and Pacific and they escaped. You know, 28 million people died in Russia in World War II.
What's the number in the United States? 400,000.
Okay, that gives you an idea who survived and who didn't.
But here's where people begin to get confused.
Chapter 3: The US inheritance of power
What happens in after immediately after World Wars one and two is that the United States
inherits all the empires that went before it. We I don't think there's a case in history
like this. the whole world organized under colonial European and a little bit
later American and Japanese uh colonialism organizes the world, sets it all up,
organizes the supply chains and all all the rest of it, locates all the industry in in its own home base
and then blows itself up and hands the entire entire global empire to the
United States. We, you and I, and I more than you because I'm older than you. I
lived my life in this bizarre second half of the 20th century with stupifying wealth in this country.
Why? Because we inherited, you know, it's like the stupifying wealth of Donald Trump. He got that from his father. He didn't do anything. He lost
much of it, you know, or he rode the real estate wave of New York. Well, he did. He did nothing. He He's a wonderful
do nothing. We were a nation that inherited it.
And now we unfortunately recognize that if you inherit all of the old empires
then the dialectical other the revolt against colonialism
which began already in the 19th century and built up while of this story I'm just telling on the surface it's all
about colonialism but underneath the basis for breaking away had gandhi He
did it in India. You know, Join did it in East Africa and on and on and on. And
what the United States is now getting is the culmination of the anti-colonial
era which is replacing the colonial era which shouldn't surprise anybody. Very
very typical in in human history. you move and then there's a the the the reaction if you like. I think the thing
that Europe has is they're even further along in the loss of the empire than the United States.
They lost a smaller empire.
We're losing the the totality of the whole colonial project. And I think I
can with that framework explain two other things that are lurking here.
Chapter 4: Delusions of a dying empire
A a kind of colonialist fantasy. That's remarkable if you think about it.
When Ka Kalis talks with great passion about fighting Russia and defeating
Russia and carving Russia up, what are you do? You are recasting
without being aware of it the Berlin conference of 1884 when all the imperialists got together in Berlin with
the blessing of Bismar to take a map of Africa and mark it up. You Germans get this one, you French get that one, you
British get this one. I mean, it is a fantasy. It's not going to happen.
They're losing in Ukraine, but they're desperate because of Ukraine. Not for a minute. NATO has a
wonderful story to tell about how it expanded to the east after 1990.
Every whistle, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, all of them. Yes, they're not
going to get Ukraine, but you know, it isn't Ukraine. It's that fantasy of a revival of colonialism.
And as if to make my thesis stronger, Mr. Trump raves about Greenland,
making Canada a state, taking back the pan. These are delusions of a dying empire.
imagining that it can hold on to its wealth by some fantastic reliving of colonialism.
Israel tries to settler colonialism and ends up committing genocide.
That's it. You can't do what it is in history's motion to block you from
doing. The last thing, if I read the history of empires correctly,
Chapter 5: Inequality and scapegoating
every time an empire is born and develops over time and then reaches the point where it peaks and goes down, the
people who can occupy a position of wealth or power
begin to use the wealth and power to in ensure themselves to insulate themselves from the declining empire.
And so what we will see is an almost obscene inequality of wealth because
it's getting harder and harder absent the empire to sustain the wealth of the
west. And so those who can and hold on, who have something, some new technology,
some corner of the market, some oligopoly or monopoly posit, they solidify it. They focus on it. They buy the politicians to protect it.
Meanwhile, the mass of people are going to be paying the price of a declining empire,
which will protect itself against what I just said by looking for and cultivating
every scapegoat imaginable as they destroy their own middle and
poor classes. So you get this lunatic upsurge of anti-immigration mentality.
You you or even the the ability to transform Mr. Putin into a reincarnated Stalin. What is this th this hysteria?
That's the way you are coping with this decline.
I agree. And well, when Kayak Kalis talked about breaking up Russia into smaller countries, she said they would be better governed if they're smaller,
but I think what she meant was they will be easier to govern or managed. So, no, it is um I I
as if European countries like hers gave a damn about how the rest of the
world is governed. I mean, country after country in the world governed horrifically and there's not a word of
complaint or I mean it's just a joke that when when politicians even you
mediocre ones like her but when they talk that level of nonsense then you
it's usually a sign of something very serious but one displacement away and
and our job is to analyze what that real problem is that gets expressed in this oddly displaced way.
By the way, my wife is a psychotherapist. That's that's how they practice. You come in and and you talk with great passion about your horrible
dog. Well, it's not your dog. Something is bothering you and and you have transformed it onto the dog.
You take your upset seriously.
But you ask the question, what is the seriousness? You don't accept the first line rendering of what it's about.
Chapter 6: Corporate interests in politics
Uh now that's interesting actually I keep making the point that I think instead of international relations analysts we need psychologists because there is something deeper going on
there. uh but we see that in west of the political liberalism has often gone hand inhand with economic liberalism and uh
we know that the Americans in the beginning of the 19th century refer to the British as a free trade empire because the British dominated the
technology the industry the financial power they control the world seas so free trade essentially meant uh an
international economy under the control of the British now you can say that the era of globalization now uh which which
has passed over the past 30 40 years uh when u you know free trade it allowed or it sustained a dominant position for the
United States right however this appears to be over that is the US can't really compete anymore
first industries and then technologies with China it doesn't really control the world's uh you know maritime corridors
we see that from the Arctic to the straight of her moose financial power you see bricks dd dollararizing setting their own development banks. Uh do you
do you see this structural decline though and but more important how do you interpret efforts by the Trump administration to reverse its decline
because it's it's uh it doesn't want to give up its dominant position in the world even though I think that has
already passed but but how well do you see any I guess structure or order in
the chaos here? not much and I think the quest is hopeless which often goes together with it's not going to be
sustained because you can't sustain it across the hopelessness of the quest. I think what you have here in the United
States is a is a much more how shall I put it simpler more vulgar process. You
have industries and enterprises that are still profitable
in a free trade or relatively free trade environment.
If you actually look at what is produced by the business roundt and the US
chamber of commerce, they in many ways hold on to
liberal global that kind of language and they send memoranda right up to the president. He
always listens. These are the two or two of the most important business interest groups in Washington.
But the they are usually the spokespersons for a clump of American enterprises
who have carved out a niche for themselves.
They did that within the glo during globalization. They didn't care about it. whether or not they needed globalization.
They carved out a niche for themselves.
I'm going to give you an example. The most famous is called the military-industrial complex because it
came right out of World War II. And there was the famous statement of President Eisenhower that we should all
beware because of a cozy relationship between the military apparatus and the
companies producing arnament and that they had gotten together and had
organized that there would be military bases in all 50 states. that the production would be distributed so that
they could lean on all the senators and congressmen, each of them being approached by a factory or a military
base in their area which gave them the votes and all of that. This was so
successful in grazing the defense and you know the United States budget the
federal budget spends money on defense way more than the rest of the world combined.
Why is that? because they showed the way that don't make a monopoly. Don't have one company. Have three or four an
oligopoly and integrate it carefully with whoever else you can get to share the and then
go as a coordinated group to the Congress and buy your prosperity. It
worked. It worked brilliantly. It's working to this moment for our defense industry.
Who copied it? The next one to copy it, the medical industrial complex. Not the military, the medical. What is that?
Four industries. The doctors, the hospitals, the medical insurance because we don't
have a a national health here. So, the private companies that provide medical insurance. And number four, the drug and device manufacturers.
Those four work just like the military.
They you pay ridiculous premiums for our health insurance. The health insurance companies make a fortune.
They to respectful of the group they're in allow the drug companies to charge
ridiculous prices for drugs. They go to the employer p the employers don't like
it. The employers are bitter. But the employers are too dispersed, too many.
They haven't yet.
Chapter 7: The economic reality of energy
You know who's able to do it now? who learned a lesson. High-tech, Amazon,
Apple, all they've learned they they need to coordinate their AI and all the
rest of it and try to function. And you could see him lined up behind Mr. Trump
at the inauguration last year. He brought them all to they they got together to be up there on that
platform. I think what you're seeing is a disintegration in which government
becomes the arena very vulgar of clumps subgroups of
capitalists. That's basically what they are. Who work out amongst themselves a deal that allows them. It's the logic of
a union. The workers get together and bargain collectively. Okay. The capitalists get together, many fewer of
course, and bargain using their combined profits, which are staggering in
silerson in both parties, which many of them do,
just to make sure that there's nice continuity.
You see it today. You see it literally today when the general
uh economy in many parts of it are suffering because they can't get diesel oil. Diesel oil because of the straight
of Hormuz the war in Iran that's all it is a little bit the war in Russia but not that much. So diesel oil has gone
through the roof even worse than oil and gasoline. So the so all kinds of people hurt by this price complain bitterly.
Farmers are terrified because between the oil price which they have to pay and
the diesel oil they have to pay and the fertilizer which becoming and the fertilizer from oil and then the
fertilizer from potach which unfortunately is in Canada not here.
They are squeezed beyond all. They screaming.
Yeah. But the refinery and the oil companies, that's a whole another complex. They're screaming, too. And they have a head start because they
mobilized to squash the electric vehicle industry in this country. Mr. Tesla
could be the big rich man. He could be in Mr. Trump's office, but he didn't
have the power that the oil and gas companies did developed over the last century in this country. And so the
chamber of commerce and a business roundt said you must not ban exports
of diesel oil in this country, which would solve the problem. The United States is by far the biggest producer of
diesel oil. So it could solve the problem with regular production, let alone uh draining reserves. And it goes
through this charade with the Europeans who are desperate, of course, because if a ban was put in, the price of of of all
of this stuff in Europe would go yet again higher. They're already suffering and they can't, you know, they're
they're in an impossible situation. So my it's a long answer but here's the answer. That battle is underway. It's
Chapter 8: The myth of free trade
still fought but not in the grandiose terms globalization versus neo you know neoliberal
globalization versus economic nationalism. Economic nationalism was
completely impossible before. I should tell you when I went to graduate school in economics and got my PhD,
anybody who said anything about economic nationalism would get a very
ridiculed. In other words, it was a settled matter. international trade,
free markets were the guarantor of growth and efficiency and prosperity.
And that that had been settled that that was as certain as the sun will come up tomorrow like it did today. None of that exists anymore. Now it's all murky.
Mr. Trump, the way he did that was was interesting. The way he did it was by
suddenly and massively intervening in the economy. Just he just changed the way this was thought of.
I could say he was carrying out an intellectual move in that direction. I don't think so. I think that move was
very very small. He took it for him. It was self-evident. You know, if a big
company is in trouble and they're supporters of him politically and they come to him and say, "We're in terrible
trouble. Why don't you take a 20% shares? We'll issue a new non- voting stock and we'll sell it to you, Mr.
President. How about that? Sure. Here." And then that was it. Intel, other huge
corporations were suddenly okay. It's just okay. He did it a little
bit with labor, but that was phony because the anti- labor bias that is as strong as it's ever been. So, they're
not going to go there. He'll have a speech or two where he'll talk about how there shouldn't be factories moving to
Mexico or something, but he did very little about that. you know the statistics he has brought manufacturing
back to the United States not one iota nothing a complete fakery you know but
by the way I I once did a little research 10 of the last presidents
promised as part of their campaign to bring manufacturing back to America. So,
it's a standard promise and it's a standard non-deliverable in the sense that it never happens. So, I I think
what you're going to see is if you ask the question, are we economic nationalists or free traders? The answer
is we may still occasionally talk that way out of a habit,
but it what we're really seeing is the battle of different groupings.
The oil and gas don't want an ban on exports of diesel oil, so we won't have one.
They're strong enough. The farmers, even though they control politics in half a
dozen states and can be very influential in the politics of Washington DC, they
can yell till they're blue in the and he's going to lose. I don't know exactly, but my guess is going to lose
farm farm votes big time this unless he does something spectacular in the next
four weeks, that's gone. Those people are horrified at what has happened to them economically. But the truth is it's
because whatever else farming is, it's a small potatoes compared to the other
industries and they don't have the history the way the other ones do. And so that that's what we have. We have
that kind of fighting among Goliaths.
If this if we were watching this in Russia, there would be all this conversation about oligarchs because that's what we have. We have these
industrial clumps led by the respective oligarchs and they are forever squeezing
the the politicians to do what they want.
Chapter 9: Tributary global relations
Yeah. No, I think it's quite fascinating though the the extent to which Trump can intervene into the economy even for
political purposes and how this become well essentially normalized as you said how he brings in the oligarchs beat you
know he argued that the new de developments of the military the ideas should come now from Elon Musk Palmer
Lucky and N Gingri I mean this is quite extraordinary but I I I wanted to ask about how the US model
um towards the rest of the world because what I found interesting with both Venezuela and Greenland is not just what they did but how it was communicated.
They were very explicit uh about what made it so great was that they got exclusive influence. They cut out especially the Chinese, Russians, the
other main centers of power and you see almost similar formula being done for Europe. They they should cut themselves off from other centers of power just
develop exclusive influence or exclusive dependence on the United States. As you said, Canada should be incorporated. The
Panama Canal should be brought under US control. Why not Cuba while you're at it? I mean is this the new model set up
um going to exclusive sphere of influence or colonies uh which has to pay tribute because obviously you can
say Venezuela will have to pay tribute but but even the Europeans because now they will pay top dollar for their energy uh they're going to have to pay
more uh for security and you you do see that there's something uh it's not a system as it was only a few years ago.
Well, again, I don't want to beat a dead horse here, but we got we I'm talking now as an American. We got used to a
level of wealth and a level of global hegemony.
That really is extraordinary. If you inherit the empires built up over three centuries in Europe
by Europeans and also the much younger one built up by the Japanese. If you
inherit all of that, yes, your attitude is I am it's the mentality of the European
Belgium in a hol in Congo was whatever the secular god might be, you
know, uh a superpower, a dominant, uh everything starts there, everything focuses there. All the instructions
about what to do come from the headquarter.
This is the mentality. What does that mentality do when two things happen at the same time? Quite typical in history.
Namely, your dominance declines and an alternative starts to rise.
You feel threatened. You want to draw in whatever you have. And yes, the whole
world is now explicitly to become tributary.
Before it was in fact tributary, but you didn't say it. You didn't need to say
it. You came out of a history not just of the dominance of free trade but of the dominance of free trade over and
against an empire from which the United States violently withdrew. Okay. Uh it
that works nicely. You are now in a position to say wait a minute this new arrival
denying your own decline. This new arrival is an aggressive threat to what
we have. We have a wonderful world economy. It has worked wonderfully. I,
you know, all my life, Glenn, ever since I've been a high school student,
when I began to learn about how poor the rest of the world is. And when I was in
college, I I spent a time in what was then Tanganika, East Africa. It's now Tanzania.
Then it was Tanganika and Kenya. I spent time there. The level of poverty,
the absence of medical care, the fact there were four high schools for a population of two and a half million
people and on and on and on. It it I understood in a very visceral way the
gap between New York that I could go to all my life and what I was seeing, you
know, but I've never been able to get to show that to my I've taught in America all my life. I can't teach it to my
Chapter 10: Projection in geopolitics
students. They're beginning to learn it because they see it now around them.
That's new. But I used to have to persuade them of the statistics of
poverty. This country, that's why our leaders, I mean, if you talk to Jamie Diamond, the head of JP
Morgan Chase, biggest bank in the United, he will talk to you about how good the economy is. And he he just he's
oblivious. And that's not he's not stupid. It's not bad. He has a normal education. He reads the newspaper. He has to.
But he is part of what has been the dominant
group of this country and it is steeped in them. It's like going to England and encountering some of those people who
live in the lovely houses out in the British countryside who for whom the empire is still there,
the Commonwealth. They are very excited when Prince somebody visits an African
country and lovely little children come and give him a bouquet. You know what? What?
But in their world, they're trying to hold on. And here in
the United States, China is an evil, disruptive.
Look, the fact that it's a communist no longer means very much.
It probably never did, but in any case, it doesn't now. Uh they worry about socialism and communism. Absolutely.
But that's an evil alternative. And they can dismiss. What scares them is China
because they see themselves. China is our enemy because China is taking away what we had. Well, what did you have?
The rule over the world.
the ch I I went to a seminar not very long ago here in New York where I'm I'm sitting in Manhattan and a seminar of
people high up in the hierarchy of this country and for them the struggle in the straight of Hormuz they they they were
fond of saying to each other across the seminar table that the real enemy here isn't the Iranians. Oh yeah. Well, what is it?
It's a Chinese.
The Chinese are now what comes out of European history. Eminance Gre was what
Louie said about the cardinal that because he of his power in the church he was the real
uh force the aminos gre in French. Well, the aminos gre of a declining American
empire is the rising new one. That's why it is so easy for them to attribute
classic psychology of it's called projectioning psychology. It's so easy to attribute to Mr. Putin.
His real goal is to invade all of Europe, to come and take over France and
Germany and Belgium and Luxembourg and this endless mantra that he's really got
an imperial purpose and Xi Jinping exactly the same. They are
colonial alternatives waiting in the wings. That's how deep the colonial
assumption is in the co consciousness here in the United States.
It's interesting what you said about political elites because uh you know for many years we could observe that the hedgemon was uh you know coming to an
end. We could observe that other powers were preparing alternatives such as bricks. uh but I always assumed that
once it happened uh I again I assumed a rational approach uh from the political west to this rebalancing that is okay
the era of hedgemon is over let's re like but but did this as you as you yeah
map out this uh psychology of the political elites it's uh it's something I had uh not not taken into account when
I see the panic the extreme uh language the, you know, the criminalization of
basic diplomacy, the the chanting for war even when we don't have actual militaries. I mean, all of this
craziness and this talking about open about the regime changing Russia, breaking it up in pieces. I mean, this is and the Chinese as well, it's none of
this is rational. Um, but uh actually I had one one last question because I know you have to go. It's a it's a short one.
Chapter 11: Energy policy and manipulation
Uh we are in the middle of an energy crisis as we know as you said war with Iran uh but also with Russia and diesel
shortage is now the most pressing issue and we know that Trump he threatened an export ban on the Europeans uh to pressure the Europeans to release large
amounts of diesel from their strategic reserves to drive down the prices. Uh do you think these efforts will be successful and for how long? Because if
this was an easy fix, uh I guess why did the Europeans have to be coerced to do it?
Well, I think that this is a wonderful example. So, let me try to explain.
When Mr. Trump was confronted by the farm states about a dozen senators and congress
people very influential from the Midwest which is in California partly where we do our agriculture.
They demanded a ban on exports to drive down the price of diesel. They didn't
care about Europe. They could care less what this does to Europe. They wanted it because their the profitability of of
agriculture depends on it. The the price of diesel is literally extinguishing the
margin for them in their agricultural pursuits. And you know, most of our agriculture is now very large
corporations who have huge amounts of profits that they can throw into lobbying and all the rest of it. So they
have an established group of
psychopantic bought and purchased politicians and
they all went to Mr. Trump and said, "All right, he responds to he always
does that his role of governance is to try to give to whoever comes to him what they want.
We don't have an electric car industry worth anything in this country because the old fuel burners went to him and dominated and he stopped the subsidies.
He, you know, he changed everything.
Um, sorry, let me just get this away.
Um, so he made a remark, our president did
# BLOCKS COLLIDE: BIG-OIL and BIG-AGR
about 10 days ago, a week ago, that he was considering banning export
of diesel oil. Once he once he said that, his advisors swung in around him and started coming up because that's
their job with some kind of plausible story really quite far-fetched usually
in which this might make sense. They don't spend much time and they're not
good at it. So, they come out clumsy. It a clever reporter can ask a question
they didn't think about. It's awful to watch. I mean, you you're watching really shoddy performance, but okay,
everybody kind of now knows in arrive the oil companies with their who own the
refineries that convert oil into diesel oil. Okay? And here's what they said. It it's so wonderful. They went to Mr.
Trump and they said, "We have been your loyal supporters.
We don't want this." And by the way, when they did that, they threw in some
freebies called free trade. They made some illusions to globalist because that's still lingo that you can use. So,
they tried that. They threw everything in there. But, but Mr. Trump understood. He now had a a problem. he's used to.
One group of his supporters want it, another group of his supporters don't want it. What is he going to do? Well,
he made a big mistake. He repeated that he was thinking about it, giving the impression
to the oil people that he might actually do for the farmers and the big aggra
businesses what they want. Here was then the remark made by the oil and gas company officially publicly.
It is a mistake became their position.
You can't you can't lower prices. Why not?
Well, if you put a ban on, the prices will go down. And if the price goes down
in the United States, we will cut back on refining and it'll go right back up.
And you will look bad, Mr. president because you couldn't deliver what you promised you would.
That seems to have worked. So they went to the Europeans and they said, "You
have to use up your oil uh diesel oil reserves. We will do a little, you know,
window dressing." If I understand correctly, the amount they're going to release is the equivalent of one day's
demand for diesel oil. It is that that's not going to make a very big difference.
It's not going to last very long. But I want I want to stress when they said that it was not
understood to be what it is, a threat by an oligopoly to use its oligopoly to force
the prices high so they can make a profit because that's what they did. No.
No. This was treated, get ready, as though well that's how the market works.
That's not how the market works. That's how the market is manipulated.
Because the people who run the businesses, they've learned supply and demand, too. And they know that if they're getting a good result because of
the straight of her moves, crunching the supply of diesel in the world, and that drives up the price, the way you
maintain that price is to maintain the shortage of diesel. And if it isn't maintained by the Iranians in Hormuz, they will maintain it at the refinery.
It is a, if you know how to understand it, it is a wonderful example of how
American economic policy comes about.
Well, Professor Wolf, uh, thank you for taking the time. Uh, as I understand you have a big day ahead of you, so I won't take more of your time. Thanks again.
Oh, my pleasure, Glenn. And thank you for the programs that you create.
￼
