Interviewer: Stanislav Krapivnik MrSlavikman

Chapter 1: The state of modern Ukraine
France is burning and Cameron McGregor for told that. Is this the end of the country? Is this the the beginning of
the unraveling of the country state known as France? Will it fall apart into its consistent parts? What used to be France, what used to be Normandy,
Britany, Burgundy, or will there be a rebirth? Is this the end of the fifth republic? Will the monarchy return?
After all, the king, the former, you know, the the line of the of the Bourbon Kings is offering to return to take over
to run the country the way it needs to be run away from NATO and away from the U uh EU and UN. Is this the new
beginning or the final chapter in the history of France? Let's discuss.
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to another episode of India has a truth.
And round one in the left corner, we have my brother by another mother, Cameron McGregor, the one and only the
surv from a from a from a keelt to a sloav. I bid you good day.
Hey, you Kelts uh are all, you know, you're all genetically linked from the Ukrainians. Uh you know, you're you're
from Galitzia. You're Gaelix from Galitzia. You know, that's what they they tell everybody. By the way, you know, that's what I've heard. Yeah, that's
what I've heard. Well, I'm glad I'm glad that I've learned where the origin story of my people comes from. Well, any Ukrainian will tell you that.
By the way, you know, uh there was a a statistic that that came out of Ukraine.
The illiteracy rate among Ukrainian kids is now hitting well over 40%. Oh man.
But they know they dug the Black Sea or their answer. So let me let me let me ask you this before we start and I know
that this is not really the principal topic but if you had to assess a no no
BS bare bones analysis of the state of Ukraine today is it a failed collapsed
anarchical mad max beyond thunderdome state where where is it is it on the cusp of that collapse is it in that
collapse what say Um, it's an artificial entity that has economically died long before this
Chapter 2: Western perceptions of war
conflict began. Uh, it left the Soviet Union with zero debt because Russia took all the debt. uh had an industrial and
scientific base the size of France in 1991 and by 2021
uh it had not only lost about 15 million people out of about 50 52 million people it had uh but uh it was being compared
to Uganda as far as wealth individual wealth at which point the president of Uganda by the way came out and said don't you dare compare us to those
people we live better than they do so so you know at this point and that was before the pressures of of of the actual
pressures of a real war instead of the genocide they're trying to conduct in eastern Ukraine. Um it's you know when
you're when your only civilizational ethos uh is uh we're the anti-Russians
especially when they are Russians where the anti-Russians and the only civilization idea we have is we hate Russians. That's not much to build your
your mafia state on. Uh it's it's just a mafia. Uh it's it was a mafia thief. Still is.
Uh with different levels of of dons and subdons as governors and mayors just stealing everything dry and passing on a percentage up.
So it's it's it it was already a failed state. It's just collapsing even further. Um so I don't know. I don't
think it'll be Mad Max. I think it'll be more like Escape from New York. Well, that's not very comforting.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no. But I think it'd be more realistic uh than Mad Max. Uh the unfortunate part to say so.
Well, so that so that that is your point of view. Um, and recently, and as you know, I'm I'm in the DC area, which is
sort of like living in Alice and Wonderland to some degree, but I had a I
had a conversation in a cafe maybe 40 minutes outside of DC with a with a a
guy who's about your age. Um, so no older than 25. Yeah.
Right. Um, and this is a this is a this is an intelligent guy. He's a conservative politically vision.
Um, definitely an intelligent person. I would say informed, you know, nothing superficial per se about him, an
evangelical Christian. Take that for whatever you want. But we had a conversation and and I often have these and I ask people, "What do you think?
What do you think of what's happening in the world?" And and he said the following.
um NATO and to a lesser extent the European Union, but specifically NATO is consolidating. It's getting stronger and
it's bringing the various European powers together because of the increased Russian threat. The Russian advance
against Ukraine has stalled and Ukraine is beginning to gain momentum for a counter thrust. Uh the war in the Middle
East has not gone well per se, but the United States is prepared for a massive
resurgence against Iran to reclaim the straight of Hormuz and essentially win back control of the region and that
we've got to stay strong with Israel, which is our true democratic ally in the region. And furthermore, that China
while it has ascended to some degree is an economic basket case that is on the verge of a major crisis. Not least of
which because demographically it is declining in population. That is the view from Washington DC. That is what
they think and that is I would say as close to an inverse of reality as you can get. So, in the morning, he gets up,
he he pulls his hair back for his uh neural jack and slams in the cable that goes straight to Fox News and downloads
his Fox talking points for the uh or thinking points for the day.
Chapter 3: Reality vs. intelligence
Well, I mean, it look it just it goes deeper than that. And and this is the issue, you know, and I've talked about this before, is that right now there is
a supposition that the United States is going through perhaps political turmoil
because of the midterm elections which are near and that because of that the administration may reorient its politics
or change its foreign policy. And I have said repeatedly and apologies again for repeating myself but that is an illusion
because more or less what I just expressed that point of view is universal inside the beltway. It's what
both major parties think and I see no evidence that they've learned anything over the last 6 months.
Um considering the speed of Russian advance is actually beginning to seriously accelerate. We've got three major um we got three major pockets. One of them is uh been cut in half already.
Um there's a a really big mega pocket forming around the last three uh fortified cities. The Ukrainians have
thrown in the Azoff core, which I'm surprised actually went into this uh another stupid counter offensive uh for
Zilinski's PR move for when he went to the UN. Uh and they're now beginning to get rolled back uh in portions of their frontage.
Yeah, you know, well, yeah, I'll say this. Yeah. Did you watch my interview with Mike uh with
Robert Barnes, the last one? Dear friends, I hope you enjoyed this video, and if you did, uh please like, please
sign up, and please don't wait for the algorithm to let you know of other videos. I'm posting on average around two videos a day. Uh please come to the
channel and check them out. The video for what the algorithm for whatever reason is not posting. So, what can we
do? Also, check out my uh substack meage.
Uh, I hope to see you. Hope to see you soon. And leave some comments. That's all. That also helps. And it's always good to see what people are thinking and writing.
No, not yet. No, I haven't seen.
Go watch it. It was about a It was about two weeks ago. I'm going to do one with uh Rob uh tonight uh after you, as a
matter of fact. And there's something interesting that Rob said because he knows Vance personally and he said Vance
reached out and he asked uh is the Russian advance really stalled? Is Russia really on the edge of uh of
economic collapse? Uh are there people ready to surge into the streets? And Rob told like no it's everything's the
opposite of that. What Vance told him is this is what they're being fed. I'm talking about Vance, uh Trump, uh the
entire Congress, this is what the CIA and the other uh 17 spy agencies are feeding the people that make the
decisions. So when Trump comes out there and said, you know, can't understand why Putin won't take the exit out, I'm giving him an exit to save himself. See,
he thinks he's doing that, but the reality is like, gentlemen, we're winning. like you know the economy is growing not as fast as it could but
about 2% growth last year uh about 1.8 so and about the same this year. So
where's and that's considering you know it's it's fighting a war and and there is infrastructural damage that's constantly being repaired
but they make decisions off of that and he and he told him like he you know listen to these guys or this is this is the reality. So that that's what the spy organizations are telling them.
Chapter 4: Energy and scarcity
So you know look here here's what I would say uh and you know how much I like to reference quotes that there's a British historian his name is Thomas
Buckle and he said the following. He said when the interval of the intellectual classes and the practical
classes is too great the former so the intellectuals will possess no influence and the latter will reap no benefits.
The the truth is that as soon as you hit central Europe, Poland West, you enter
into a distortion field that's 80 years in the making. 80 years in the making.
And and what's interesting about that is that you have two things that are on a collision course. And this is purely
internal to the west or the collective west, however you want to describe it.
And that is you've got the politics of scarcity and you've got the politics of manipulation. And there are many many
expressions of this and it's unfolding now in a way that is more dangerous to western governments and social cohesion
than I think we've seen in a hundred years. Okay? And what I mean is specifically this virtually every
American administration is a crisis management public relations organization. That's what it is. It doesn't really exist to solve problems.
And it hasn't had to solve problems for a long long time because America the its
infrastructure, its resources, its military power, its economy were so strong fundamentally essentially that
they could manipulate or they could orchestrate or they could redirect public opinion as they saw fit even
though it wasn't real. You know, they could say, "Well, the global war on terrorism is necessary. It's going well because we didn't really feel the
consequences. Well, now we don't live in that world anymore. So now you have a diesel shortage in France. They're running out of gas.
Not only you have the same kind of you kind of have the same dynamic that's unfolding in the United States. And I I listened to somebody yesterday's or a few few days ago. It's very interesting.
The United States is an energy superpower. This is true. It is. But what this energy expert said is that we
have the resource but we don't have the infrastructure. This is true. We don't really have the refining capacity that we think we do. We've shut down a lot of
refineries in the last 5 years alone. We don't really have the pipelines. We don't have the sort of crosscontinent
connectivity or energy complex that we say we do. And instead of acknowledging that and making structural changes, what are we doing? We're manipulating oil
prices based on shorts in the futures market and using the strategic petroleum
reserve which is very ambiguous at the moment in terms of knowing where that fundamental threshold is. But at the
same time, nobody in the White House or on Capitol Hill or in the National Security Council and certainly not
inside the Citadels of Power, whether you're talking about Harvard University or you're talking about uh, you know, the Hudson Institute, whatever, at none
of these centers of power, does the intellectual class really grasp the acute severity of the crisis we face.
And so instead of making any structural adjustments, they're doubling down.
They're doubling down on escalation against the Russians with resources they don't have. They're doubling down on a war in the Middle East, which is a disaster, not just for the world, but
for the United States. And even though the population is beginning to feel it, they don't care. I mean, look, there are now rumors that in the United States
we're going to see trucking uh revolts, right? We're going to see trucking protests and blockades this month in the United States.
Wow.
Um it's going to be something if that happens.
That's incredible. But it makes perfect sense because the price of diesel is just too high. It's too high. And so the trucking industry, which as you know is
indispensable to the economy of the United States, that is disrupted. So the politics of manipulation are failing and
the politics of scarcity are rising. And here's one other thing that's crucial is that interest rates on the US Treasury
bond are surging across every maturity level. two-year, fouryear, 10 year. And the more the administration tries to
manipulate that, the more the Treasury Secretary says, "We're going to do bond buybacks or we're prepared to throw
resources at the bond market. We're going to crush bond vigilantes, the more yields continue to rise. So, all of that is to say, we're at a very dangerous
moment." But you're right, at the center of power, the the institutions that are supposed to have a grasp on this, they don't. They're just like this guy I met
at the cafe. They think that the world is 180 degrees different from what
it's well. Okay. So, if you're having trucking uh protests, uh you're running
Chapter 5: Global policy failures
to this. You think Trump is going to uh ban the uh the export of diesel?
Yes, that's exactly what I'm doing. And 42% of Europe's diesel now comes from US. That's what's called diversification
according to the EU anyway. According to the brain trust that is the EU. So they lose 42% of their diesel. They're already down. They already don't have enough.
Yes.
And they lose the entirety of the US supply. So they're probably at about 80% right now. They lose another 40 plus percent. What's left to the EU?
Look, again, go back to the 19th century and look at the revolutions of 1848 and and the revolutions of the second half
of the 19th century, which failed. They failed. Uh, and they failed despite national fervor, you know, sort of
anti-imperialism or anti-mpire, anti- monarchy, that sort of thing. uh anarchists, socialists,
but there was an undercurrent of truth to what all of these complaints were that there desperately needed to be social reforms and eventually those
reforms were implemented. You got the embriionic stage of social insurance.
You got bismarian reforms that mified a lot of the social friction. None of that is happening in Europe. None of it
anywhere. immigration isn't being addressed at all. Instead, now you're getting direct confrontation between the
populations in Spain and the Netherlands and France and England and law enforcement or what's supposed to be law
enforcement, which represents the government because they're standing firm on compounding the very problems that
they say they're trying to solve. So whatever dumb ideas exist, it emanates from trying to perpetuate a status quo
that's fundamentally structurally broken and a government or a governmental structure that cannot make any adjustments. Period. And by the way,
that includes these wars overseas, right? I mean, the smartest thing that President Trump could have done is follow his own advice and in the first
90 days of his administration and the war in Ukraine, cut off Zilinski and he couldn't do it. The smartest thing for
the president of the United States to do right now is to end the war in the Middle East. Just withdraw forces, divest from Israel, and and essentially
contain the damage of the global energy crisis. And instead, what's he going to do? Rumor has it he's waiting for the midterms, and then he's going to start
attacking Iran all over again and may throw a third carrier strike group uh their direction. This is a disaster. But again, you have to understand the nature of these people and how they think.
their view is 180 degrees removed from reality.
Chapter 6: Escalation in Middle East
And again, what is he going to throw? I mean, just let's begin with that. He's already basically out of missiles. So, they what manufactured maybe in these 3
months uh another 30 40 uh uh Tomahawk missiles.
And look, it's it's so st it's so much worse than that. Uh we we don't have the
merchant marine fleet to sustain our operations overseas. We're providing logistics and supplies from Diego
Garcia, which is 2500 miles away from the Gulf. We lost control of the Red Sea
in 2023 when the Houthis essentially defeated the US Navy. We've lost control of the Straits of Hormuz. And now the
house of Assad may fall because this escalation, this war between the Houthis and Saudi Arabia, which the Saudis have lost for 10 years, has now been
reignited. And they're essentially surrounded on all sides by various militia groups, whether it's the popular mobilization forces in Iraq or it's the
Houthis in Yemen or maybe other Iranian proxy forces that are going to make mince meat of Saudi Aramco, its
facilities, its u refining capacity, its pipelines, and they have no military defense for it whatsoever. But Wall
Street thinks that at any moment we're going to get a peace deal with Iran and we're going to get back to all-time
highs in the stock market. And frankly, that's what the president of the United States probably thinks, too. Uh he he may think that doubling down, you know,
bombing Iran one more time may get there. Wall Street thinks that uh maybe it's a deal. Either way, it's delusion.
It's total delusion.
Yeah, I I believe it. I mean, at this point, it it Well, you know, I I don't think
we're gonna have time for uh the elections. Look, BB's got elections and
BB is BB BB is the god king of the man of the emperor of of
humankind. Uh that would be Trump. But BB is his god king. And BB needs a war because BB's about to lose. Not to say
that the people got to that want to replace BB are better are nicer than BB.
They're even more psychotic than uh than that walking monster. Uh but that walking monster wants to stay in power.
Um I think he's going to reinstate restart this whole uh this whole little project called war uh and hope the US gets dragged into it.
Unless the United States government can categorically reject Apac uh Zionism,
the Israeli firsters, then we are going to continue to slowly ensnare ourselves or rapidly ins snare ourselves in this broader regional war in the Middle East.
It's just that simple. Where is evidence from either the Democrats or the Republicans in any meaningful sense
whatsoever that we can affect that categorical shift? It's just not there.
It's just not there. Now, on the flip side, what's very interesting about what's unfolding, I think, is that we're
Chapter 7: Crowd psychology shifts
we're on the cusp of something major in terms of a shift in crowd psychology.
So, that is to say, yeah, the elites are sort of delusional in the West. uh certainly the higher levels of power that you get to, but the populations are
getting more and more angry. They're demanding relief and they're not getting it and they know that they're not going to get it based on electoral politics.
Can you hear me? Yeah, I got you. Okay.
Fun with the internet. Um, go ahead. Uh, you're talking about mass uh formation, mental formation or psych psych psychological formation.
Yeah. I mean, look, we're we're entering a dangerous environment in which I think crowd psychology is going to start turning against these elites. And the
fact that you've got energy an energy crisis, you're you've got scarce resources, you've got populations that are divided, things are going to get
very ugly. Uh there's no question about it. And I think it's going to happen sooner than people realize. And what's sad, as I said, is that there are
offramps, but I see no evidence either in Europe or the United States that we're going to take him.
You know, you wait and you wait and you hope that uh something will finally break. Um, on a slightly different note,
Chapter 8: Elites and dark networks
but still tied uh to the elites, we never really spoke about this, but a couple months ago offline, we were
talking about uh we we had both listened to some um we' both listened to some um
uh testimonies of people that said that they as children, these were either teenagers or adults who said as children
they were uh they were part of a satanic cult or satanic cults uh and and the just horrific things that
they were saying and even if like 10% of that's true that it's already past horrific but we we started talking about this in
Florida about two months ago. It was a little longer. Uh three guys got arrested for having 163 kidnapped
children and they kept them in different spots which is already when you think about it is insane. I'm absolutely insane. So, you nobody's talking about that they were connected to anybody.
It's just these three pedophiles, which you'd think, okay, if you're a pedophile, I mean, just just think about this from a logistic standpoint of view.
If you're a pedophile, uh, yes, you're interested obviously in kids for unspeakable deeds, but here comes the
problem. You got 163 kids. That's a logistical nightmare. And they're all at different locations. How do you feed them? How do you uh get them in there?
you it that that becomes in incredibly insane. You don't ever see that with pedophiles. Three pedophiles that have
163 kids. Uh they may have like five or six kidnapped or something like that, but now you're going into the the ludicrous range.
What do you think is behind this? I mean, concerning logistics and everything, just keeping them fed. I mean, the logistics of that.
Look, I I I've heard for 15 plus years uh since I was a lowly intern on Capitol
Hill and that whole Pizzagate scandal broke. You probably remember that. Oh yeah. Yeah. I won't forget that one.
Alex Jones among others. And you know the these things there's sort of like blips uh or swells that would come to
the surface and they would cause a disruption and then they would sort of submerge again. Uh so they would get to
sort of just beneath the mainstream and then disappear. Um the rumors that I've
heard for years is that this pedophilia thing is an international network. Uh that it involves South Asia, Latin
America, North America, Europe, and it has some affiliation directly with the elites in in the Western world, but
probably globally as well. And that must on some level overlap with the Epstein class, the extortion rackets, you know, MSAD, this sort of thing.
Um, but look, there are several things that are converging at a minimum. One is that you do seem to have some kind of dark forces.
Maybe they're satanic, occultic, something of that nature. I don't frankly believe that such a thing is as
monolithic as people assert, but there's certainly elements of it. There's no question about that. And you know, there's been talk about how it's
connected to English monarchy or the monarchy in the United Kingdom, European aristocracy in Western Europe and
intelligence agencies in the United States. So that's one. Another is that, let's call it what it is, children are a
commodity. Uh, and it's horrifying to state it like that, but it is true. Does that mean that they're being commoditized
for organs? Does it mean that they're being harvested for you know their blood
which is al these are allegations that have been made or leveled at people like Peter Teal and others who have been uh
who who have invested in companies that perform something called parabiosis which is sort of trying to sustain or
rejuvenate older uh older people with uh more youthful blood. You know this is
something people talked about as adrena chrome you know that sort of thing. Uh there could be other purposes as well. I don't know. The question is is there is
there there yeah I think there is and is there something subterranean that's much bigger than we realize. You know this
gets into things talked about um by people like uh Katherine Austin Fitz for example. I don't know if you're familiar
with her work. I just don't know. I don't know uh her claim. I I don't want to I don't want to misstate it, but I think her claim is that a lot of this is
tied to the financial system and the disappearance of huge amounts of money involved in these kind of underground complexes. I don't know. Uh there is
something there. What I will say is as follows. We are on the cusp of a major crisis in the west. Yes.
Uh financially, economically, racially, it's all converging in what I would call a perfect storm. And because of that,
governments are going to fall. And I do think we're going to get some some sunlight on these issues. I just don't know how deep it goes. I don't know how
widespread it is. But I do think whatever it may be, it has embedded itself in the power structure, which is why we haven't gotten answers. And I
think it's also why there's a massive sort of overhead that's well financed, that's logistically connected, and
almost certainly has ties to government authority. Uh, and that can only be broken by some major crisis or exogenous event. And that's what we've got.
Chapter 9: Deep state and technology
Yeah, that's uh that's that's a lot to think about when I mean the
and and we know we know what uh uh what's the guy that's running uh Justice now that Bondi's gone. Uh keep
forgetting his name. Um here's Bondi's number two. Um who the new guy is.
Yeah. Well, while Trump was uh and we know while Trump was attacking the pontiff and making Jesus pictures of Trump of himself, he quietly came out
and you know replaced Bonnie and said we've uh we've disclosed all the documents which which is a lie. We've
hown uh we unredacted everything which is an absolute lie and we don't see any criminal activity and case closed.
That's it.
So, we did what we did to your kids as a society, and we're going to keep doing it.
Well, you know, there's there's several things here. So, one is I think it's pretty clear that whatever was going on
with Epstein, Trump is involved. Uh what does involved mean? I don't know. But he's referenced in those documents, I think, thousand in thousands of pages.
Okay, so that's one.
Um, but look, there's a guy named Steven Greer. Uh Stephen Greer uh wrote a paper years ago called the unagnowledged
threat in which he talked about a secret government in the United States and again there there have been rumors of
this for decades. I don't exactly know what to make of them. He starts where Eisenhower left off which is talking about this thing called the
military-industrial complex. But essentially his argument was that on or about the second war or just thereafter
uh some rogue element of the US government acquired pretty advanced technology and leverage that technology
to achieve escape velocity. Uh what does that mean? Does that mean another sort of um parallel society or civilization?
You know, again I I find that hard to believe but who knows? uh at a minimum it means that I don't like the term deep
state. I just think that there are other powers at work here that we can't see uh that may come to light as this sort of
end of cycle explosion or implosion happens in the western world and perhaps that's all tied together. Maybe that's
what Epstein Epstein sort of represents this sugarcoated topping of that world and that's why we can't get more answers. Uh maybe that's tied to the
pedophilia as well. There's something deeper, in other words, that is going on, but the only way we're going to get
to the heart of it is by some mass mass event. Uh what do you think that's going to be?
I mean, uh we're on the cusp of the US elections. Uh the Republicans are looking like they're going to get
slaughtered. Trump is looking like he doesn't give a damn, uh for whichever reason. And the further the closer we get to it, the more he doesn't seem to
give a damn. At least he's playing a very good game of I don't give a damn.
Um, and I think the Republicans are starting to to to panic. They've got to know what's coming their way.
Chapter 10: The looming financial crash
Look, the the mass the mass event, and I I've been saying this for for a decade plus. when I when I worked on uh Capitol
Hill and I was only there very briefly as a as a lowly intern as I mentioned earlier and I worked for some Republican guy from North Carolina but Moody's had
just put out a report uh which assembled a group of economists to assess the fiscal health of western countries. This
was in 2010 and the the conclusion of the report was that at current debt levels bear in mind this is 15 years
ago. Okay. So debt levels have multiplied uh virtually exponentially since. Okay. But but the conclusion of
the report said as follows. Western governments are and I quote facing fiscal adjustments that will test social
cohesion end quote. Now I I remember at the time I was reading that and I said to one of the the legislative assistants
I said what does test social cohesion mean? And he sort of grinned at me and he said riots in the street the mass event the mass event is going to be
financial that's what it's going to be a debt the debt loads are too high and it ripples through the entire system. Um,
by the way, part of the reason gold has pulled back in uh recent weeks is because as treasury yields are rising,
certain firms are getting liquidated because they can't carry the cost of the capital. And so they liquidated a lot of profits and lowhanging fruit, in this
case, gold, right? Because gold has had a massive runup. But as interest rates continue to rise and they're
structurally moving higher at very alarming rates. I mean, I think there was a five or 10-year auction. I can't remember exactly which, but uh I think
it was a 10-year auction in which Treasury yields jumped 19 basis points, which is 19%. Doesn't seem like a lot, but it it rose 19 basis points in a day.
Wow. That's unprecedented. Unprecedented.
And the the issue is that the treasury market is at the core of the global financial system. It is the collateral
that anchors every major financial institution in the world from China to Singapore to Europe and the United
States. That's what that's what it represents. So if that asset is essentially going to zero, which is why
yields are rising, then you're going to see pension funds get wiped out. You're going to see college endowment funds get wiped out. You're going to see
commercial real estate deflate, which is a fancy way of saying it's going to lose 50% of its value. You're talking about
major commercial buildings in New York City, Chicago, Los Angeles that are just going to be empty and you're you're
going to sell them for pennies on the dollar. Same thing is going to happen in in residential real estate. And and here's the here's the truth. in 2008
when the global financial crisis blew up and you remember it well you were there. Yep.
That crisis was never dealt with. So all those that toxic debt that the government bought and and it bought it
in two respects. One was the the troubled asset release relief program that was sponsored by the Bush administration and obviously that was
followed up by the bailouts under Obama which I think uh the Obama administration did so very reluctantly.
And then simultaneously you had the Federal Reserve which massively expanded its balance sheet so that it could buy all of these toxic assets. Well, they're all still sitting in the banking system.
They're all still there. And so now what's happening is because Japan's financial system is blowing up and
Germany's and France and the UK all at the same time, you're finally beginning to unravel or delever all of that toxic debt which was never dealt with in 2008.
and it's all converging at a time when you have an energy crisis, you have geopolitical wars, you know, all this kind of stuff. That's going to be the
mass event and it's probably going to be an event on the scale of the of the Great Depression. It's going to wipe out
the baby boomer wealth and that will bring down governments. It's just that simple. That's that's where this is headed. How rapidly does this unfold? I
don't know. But I don't think it's decades. A lot of people have been saying this is coming. it'll happen in 10 years or 20. No, I don't think so. I
think it's happening right before our eyes. And that's why Treasury yields are rising. And obviously now governments need to make structural adjustments. And
instead, what are they doing? They're just doubling down.
Chapter 11: Social and fiscal decline
Yeah. You know, it's been said that uh people who live through crisis don't realize they're living through crisis.
They think it's just uh you know, business as usual, some kind of issues.
Uh and we'll get over it. uh and only later they realized there is no getting over it because the structural uh biases
uh or structural uh def defects are so rampant that uh it it's just it's over
that look uh the the the 30-year mortgage is at 7%. It's going to go to
10. Okay. Uh the 10-year Treasury is is at five 5 and a half%. Uh you know it's it's sort of rangebound. I think it
topped out at 5.2% 2% something like that. If you go back to the 1980s, it was double digits. That's where we're
headed. Um, banks are now starting to impose, you may not know this, they're starting to levy fees on checking
accounts because banks are running out of money. They're holding all of these mortgage back securities and treasuries
uh because they've accumulated them over the last 15 years. And then remember, you've got the crisis in private credit as well, which is to say you have all
this leverage debt that Black Rockck and Apollo and KKR have weaponized uh by refinancing, right? You issue a
lot of debt, you borrow a lot at low rates, you lend a lot out at low rates, and then you just refinance it. You turn it over and over again. And that model
works fine until interest rates rise and you can't refinance, and then you start to get liquidated. And see, my sense is
that what has happened over the last two or three years is that the government has been leveraging its pensioners to
bail out all of this debt. And that's going to blow up. And it's going to blow up soon when treasuries, which is the collateral that holds everything
together, start breaking things. Um, we're there. We're at that 5% level. And you're you're you're going to see
nonlinear events. That is to say, you're going to see banks fail quickly. Sort of like Silicon Valley Bank failed in 2023
in about a 48 hour period. 20th largest bank in the country saw. It's failed in 48 hours. Gone, liquidated.
That's what you're going to start to see happen.
And yeah, it's it's going to bring it's going to punctuate the dise equilibrium and it's going to wipe a lot of people out financially. Bankers are going to
jump out of jump out of highrises. I mean, it's going to get ugly. That's what's going to happen. So, I think that's where the massive vent comes from. the uh you know my parents when we
moved to the US the first house they bought uh so my father was a mechanical engineer and the first house they bought
they paid 13% interest on it right but the house cost my father had a very
mid-range middle class income and the house cost about two years of income
of a middle class think of. It's a middle- class house. It was about oh 1,300
1,400 square ft. Um, so it wasn't a big house, but there is your first house.
But, uh, yeah. So, and and a yard that was about a quarter of an acre in a neighborhood. And yeah, it cost about
two years of salary of a of a middle class salary. Yeah.
I mean, interest rates can rise, but if the housing costs are three, four, five, seven, 8, 10 years of a middle class
salary, nobody's going to buy the houses. They physically can't.
The the is the issue is that the old models are breaking down, right? So if you want to put it in financial terms, you can talk about the 60/40 portfolio,
which is essentially a mix of stocks and bonds.
And you would rotate back and forth depending on the level of risk, depending on the risk premium and so forth. What happens when both are toxic
assets? Uh when stocks are toxic and bonds are toxic, well that means dd dollararization essentially. It means
that you start divesting and you liquidate and move into cash. That's one example. Another is that the home is
your castle. That it's the capstone on the American dream. I'm 42 years old.
I've never owned a home. I I think it's a it's an asset not worth owning at the moment and I'm not married and I don't
have children. um that sort of pattern of life for my generation at least and I'm a I'm a millennial and I would say
for Gen Gen Z as well and these were folks born I want to say late '9s to about 2012 the family formation that
underpinned that acquisition you know the sort of the union that centered in the the house as an asset and as your
net worth that social relationship has broken it's just broken. It's not there anymore. So yeah,
we're we're in a sort of mass liquidation event in which the underpinnings of American wealth are
about to get wiped out. The danger is this. In the 1930s when this happened the last time, and I think that is the
appropriate precedent, the government was sort of empowered to
fill the social vacuum. You can say whatever you want to about about the the New Deal and FDR. And I grew up in a
household that was very hostile to FDR and the New Dealers. The view from from their side was that essentially he was a
communist or he was a socialist, you know, something of that nature. But the reality is that the depression was such a social crisis that really it took
government expansion to deal with it to hedge against a revolution which almost happened in the 1930s. People forget that if you go back and you read the the
grapes of wrath, uh what you'll discover is that the United States was on the cusp of a major sort of mass event that could have brought down the government.
Um Steinbeck's book was actually censored by various folks in the United States who didn't want the grittiness of
a a story of tenant farmers who'd lost everything, who'd had their property repossessed by the banks, you know, this sort of thing. They didn't want that
disclosed to the the wider public. The bottom line, however, is that social insurance, you know, unemployment
insurance, these kinds of things, it got the population through. And then eventually you had the industry, you had a government that was a net creditor,
not a net debtor. You had uh a sort of position of reserve currency. Even though Brett Woods hadn't happened,
people stored their money in dollars. by FX reserves, dollars were as valuable as pound sterling by the 1920s. So that
turnover had already occurred and and we had a mass accumulation of gold. This time that's gone and we don't have the industry to boot,
right? So you had this massive financial crash, but you had all this industry that just needed to be rejuvenated. We don't have that industry anymore. We're
a net debtor, not a net creditor. and the automatic stabilizers, social security combined with the the Great
Society programs, Medicare, Medicaid, food stamps, those are all broke. So,
not only is the civil society hollowed out, you don't have the mutual aid societies, you don't have the sort of religious communally based culture
anymore, but now the federal government um safeguards,
they're going to get liquidated, too. So in that top in that combustible mix is going to fall what's left of the
American white middle class and that's going to give you your revolution.
Yeah. Yeah. That's uh that's hard to argue with. Um but do you
think it's going to happen with the Europeans? Okay. So Trump's going to cut diesel. More likely he will. Uh, and a
lot of experts, including some experts in Russia, oh, that can't happen. It's never happened before. Well, just because it's never happened before doesn't mean it can't happen. Uh, you
know, uh, that's kind of those, well, you have you ever died before? No. What doesn't mean that you can't die. Uh, just because you haven't died yet.
That's one of those logical leaps of of faith. Um, okay. So, Europe loses another 42%.
and Europe is the the look I I haven't seen the other cra uh crop uh uh yields
yet but the potato crop yield is down by about 30%. And the quality is low and they're already and the prices have gone up on the markets 80%.
uh for for for futures markets on on potatoes and they're talking about by midspring there's going to be no
potatoes and no vegetables on the European markets unless I guess you're buying from abroad uh and importing and and you can afford it.
So do you think Europe is going to go down into this mass event ahead of the US or do you think they're just going to
go to war and take their chances on war with Russia?
I I don't here's a safeguard and I know that the Russians and the Chinese don't believe this because of the American
brand and because they've posters of strike groups and flybys. Uh this what
Putin's exposed to whenever he has summits with the Alaska summit. What happened? Trump walks him out to the
tarmac. you see sort of the the B1s flying overhead or what have you in this sort of flex and that's still very scary
to the global south. Uh there's no question about it. But it's all bark and no bite. Uh the the the sort of
industrial surge capacity to legitimate that military power is just not there.
So I do think that this financial crisis is going to rapidly dissolve that potential for escalation. But I could be
wrong. Uh we'll have to see. What I do think is as follows.
Chapter 12: The future of Europe
Last year uh there there was a there's a man named uh Louis de Bon in France.
He is I believe a legitimate descendant of the Bourban kings that were dethroned by the French Revolution. Right.
And he made a series of statements publicly saying that if the French population wants him, he will declare himself king
and dissolve the fifth republic. And the fifth republic, as we know, which has been the most stable republic France has had probably in over a hundred years,
courtesy of Charles de Gaulle, uh their most recent iteration of Napoleon, who stitched the mess that French politics is together.
uh he said that if the fifth republic falls that he could declare himself king
uh dissolve the fifth republic and begin a new era in France. That's the direction that Europe is headed. I think
something very similar is going to happen in the United Kingdom. The parliamentary system as structured today
is broken and England has not been in this kind of position since the glorious revolution or since Cromwell and that
means that you're going to get some extra parliamentarian extra constitutional authority outside of the
political system that takes over in the ashes of the mess that these people have left. That is where the future of Europe
lies and it's going to be very peculiar depending on the European country that you're talking about. I think France is the leading edge on the continent. I
think it was 200 years ago. I think it remains so today. And I say that for a few reasons. Not just because when the
French people are pushed, they don't uh neatly assemble like the Germans and throw up their protest flags. They'll just burn down.
They blow up.
Yeah. They they blew up Macron's favorite restaurant a couple years ago.
A lot of people don't know that. They they set it on fire. Okay. Um France is going to set the EU on fire. There's
going to be a fit. They could care less about the United States, about NATO. De Gaul was always very skeptical of
Atlanticism, as I'm sure you know. They never really bought into it. Okay. So, France to me is the key. And essentially
uh this has already been communicated because one of their one of the major parties in France that's on the verge of of surging uh this is not Le Pen by the
way this is Jeanluke Melanchon who leads France onsumi which is uh the the hard like communist left in France and
basically said publicly well we're just going to dissolve our debt. We're just not going to honor it. We're not going to pay for it. And that sent bond yields
surging. Okay. uh to to the great consternation of whatever parliamentary authority exists in in France. So the
the bottom line is that whatever whatever the EU and its confederates, you know, and these local sovereign
governments represent, they're just going to break. They're going to implode. And you're going to get an end to the Fifth Republic in France. You're
going to get an end to the German Federation. And something new is going to take its place. and it's going to get very messy and very ugly. And yes, I
think that's going to happen a lot sooner than people realize. And let's hope it shortcircuits the expansion of the war. I just don't know because
unfortunately at the center of all of it, whether you're talking about Fonder or anybody else, they're living in fantasy world. They just don't
understand how weak is and how strong the Russians are by comparison.
I don't think they even understand what war is. I mean, in this case, uh I don't know what they're thinking because look,
uh when the the balloon goes up, I would not advise being anywhere near the Euro Parliament, NATO headquarters, uh or any
defense ministry of any country that decided to participate in it just for starters or probably their parliaments for that matter or presidential palaces
because, uh it's 10 minutes for the archnik to arrive uh from western Russia to London and everything in between is
just much much shorter. Um but I think they they don't believe any of this will ever happen to them.
There are two You're right. You're that's exactly right. Look there there are two prevailing world views from
people that are in our spaces. So I would say folks that are not in the mainstream in the west. So people that
have opened up to the disastrous war in Ukraine who realize that the United States is under the influence of Zionism. You know this kind of thing.
There are two prevailing views. One view is that this is all orchestrated that the the dissolution of the of the
European economy, the the shortages, you know, the the sort of unrest on the street is is very carefully being
manipulated uh by idiot sabants who probably sit just above these international institutions, whether it's the IMF or
it's the ECB or what have you. That's one view. and it's very popular and I would even go so far as to say in the United States that is the dominant view.
Then there is the alternative view which is my view and I think I think you agree with me is that nope um if it walks like
a duck and it quacks like a duck it's a duck and that is to say these people are idiot kings. Oh yes,
they have no idea what they are doing and they represent the degeneracy of decades and decades of restaffing
governments without any regard for good governance because they haven't had to worry about it for a long long time and they're stuck in this sort of virtue
signaling of World War II. They think that Putin is Stalin or he's Hitler. The same thing goes for Xi Jinping and and the fact of the matter is that the world
has fundamentally changed but they have not. Uh, and so that presents a very dangerous situation to them in which the
pitchforks are gathering and they can't see it. And I'll I'll give you one more data point on this because I think this guy's got it right. There's a professor
named David Betts. Um, he said the future of war in Europe is civil war. He has talked openly about the likelihood
that you could get civil war in England or other parts of Europe and that it could catalyze one another. I would not use the word civil war. I would say
revolution, but you know, we could split hairs. However, one of the things David Betts has said repeatedly is that as
dangerous as the situation is in England, in London, for Christ's sakes, whether you're talking about knife crime, you're talking about
confrontation between the festering Muslim population and the English population, that Westminster doesn't
really know what's going on. And in my experience with the elites, that's exactly the case. Uh I see the same
thing in Washington DC where four of the wealthiest five counties are within about a a 30 mile radius of where I am
right now. These people have gotten rich for decades and they have no idea what's going on with the rest of the country at
all. Uh to me, that's the reality. So, I'm in camp number two, and I think the emperor is about to be shown to have no clothes.
Well, um, on that note, and I hope that that I'm taking as a positive note, uh,
not as a negative note. Um, I say let's, uh, talk in about two weeks because at that point, we'll be in mid-occtober
Chapter 13: Summary and future outlook
uh, and whether Donald decides to annihilate a nation as he keeps threatening. By the way, ju just on a side note before we we we we finish up.
You watch the uh the the UN circus? I saw it.
The two genocider and chief's uh speeches, you know, UN which is supposed to be there to avoid wars, calm people
down, talk things out, and you get Trump and you get Benny uh talking mass murder.
Your opinion on that? You know, I I've mention I've mentioned this before and I think we're seeing it play out in real time. Arnold Toinby said, "Civilizations
are not murdered. They commit suicide." The Trump administration is suicidal.
Um, under the influence of Zionism, Jewish power, the United States has become a rogue state just like the state
of Israel. The state of Israel has been a rogue state since inception.
This is not new. This is not unprecedented. It has been enabled by negligence in the United States, by
corruption, by the Epstein class. Uh now the power of that third real interest has become so overwhelming that it has
infected the entire US government. And so what you're not hearing from Donald Trump is what the United States really is. The United States was always the
power of neutrality, markets, peace, you know, um avoiding foreign wars,
isolationism in the very in the most positive sense of the word. I mean, frankly speaking, if you look back 40
years, China has not been involved in a major war. That's what's made the Chinese so powerful.
That's how they've been able to accumulate wealth. That's how we accumulated wealth for the first 100 plus years of our history. That has now
changed and it's changed because of a subversion of our leadership cast and Donald Trump epitomizes that. So what's
coming out of his mouth has nothing to do with the United States, has nothing to do with our national interests. It is
simply a viferous expression of a very deranged rogue state. That being the state of Israel and the Jewish power behind it.
Yeah, I I tend to agree. Well, I challenge you to back in two weeks and we will see where we're standing or
laying or or vaporized. I don't think we'll be vaporized. Not before Christmas anyways.
So, we we are we are trending in the direction of a a psychological mass panic of some kind.
Well, the Europeans are already in that mass panic. They're they're absolutely in mass panic. And I think I I think this has gained a lot of momentum and I
I failed to see how these folks are going to put the genie back in the bottle especially once the national consciousness of these nations comes to
the four. But I got to tell you uh the people in power they they have consumed their own product.
They believe in this neoliberal order.
They believe in globalization and they're going to die on that hill. So let them die. Um, it it's dangerous when the governments when the people that run
the government start believing their own and they you're right. They've drank that Kool-Aid. They drank the purple
Kool-Aid in bucketfuls. They've washed themselves in that purple Kool-Aid. They are the purple Kool-Aid. Um, the Well, I
think in two weeks we're going to see what what's happening with the diesel crisis and we're also going to see what's happening with the food crisis amongst other things.
keep your eyes on France. I I I'm telling you, you know, France is just not talked about much uh outside of France because they do live in a
parallel universe. You know, the French have always sort of charted their own course. But let's just be very clear. I I'm telling you, I think that that is
the fulcrum point around which everything's going to shift. It's not Germany. Germany is going to follow
France, not the other way around. And while I think it's encouraging I think it's encouraging that AFD has gained such traction they're becoming a real national force.
The German Confederation or Federation rather is not going to change. It must implode. And that's true for the rest of
Europe. In France they're going to light the match and they're going to throw it onto the the funeral p. That's what's gonna happen. I'm telling you. Well,
large chunk of France is burning right down with uh second generation uh minority students burning their own
schools down, attacking teachers. Uh you know the these you can't expel them out of France because they're born in France
and they have citizenship by birth. Uh so I don't know quite what you do until I guess uh it it leads to maybe a civil
war of some kind. Declare a king, dissolve the republic, solve the problem. That's what must be done.
I don't think's husband is going to like that.
Well, husbands, right, they may all come out of the woodwork. Uh, look, whenever nations go through this, Go ahead. I'm sorry.
the two journalists that were uh that broke that story uh you know they they were being sued for slander and uh they
were able to defend themselves. They won basically.
Uh so yeah. No, make what you wish of that.
Again, I I don't want to belver this point, but you know, I've been to France a few times over the last several years, and I I'm just, you know, I try to stay
as connected as I can to French politics because when I got there in 2022, it just be, you know, Paris in
particular is in such dire straits. I mean, it really is. You fly into Trolls to Gaul airport, you take uh you take
the the the train for about an hour into uh the inner districts.
Yep. and it's it's the worst I've seen in Europe. It's really really really bad. I mean essentially you are in North
Africa or you are in the Middle East until you get to the the very inner districts in Paris. It's completely
unsustainable. But the French population knows that. Uh that being said, Americans, a lot of outsiders think that
the French are lazy, that they're disconnected. That's not true. But in France, they like their vacation days.
they like their benefits, they like their retirement um you know pension. If those things are cancelled
in any measurable sense, they will burn down the government and the fifth republic will fall and that is what's going to happen.
Well, we will soon see uh we will soon see because by the way Mcronone is also going for reforms which means austerity
and and taking all that out as a matter of fact, right?
So we shall soon see. Um, I want to thank you as usual uh for coming on and
uh let's talk in about two weeks and and and see where we stand.
Well, you're standing in a much sa a much safer ground than I am.
Yes, that's for sure. Talking seen it at the moment, but yes. Uh and we'll do that.
Everybody, thank you for joining and join us back in about two weeks. And uh we we we will make the next assessment of of how this I don't know if you call
it managed or freef fall collapse uh is happening. Yeah.
￼
Sync to video time
