Close Menu

[Dr. Steven Greer][Dr. Steven Greer]

Subscribe to Updates

Get the latest creative news from FooBar about art, design and business.

What's Hot

Beyond Top Secret: The Era of Disclosure

September 29, 2026

The Dr. Steven Greer Podcast – Episode 24: The U.N.O.D. Letter, August 29 Deadline & Deep State Suppression

September 29, 2026

The Dr. Steven Greer Podcast – Episode 23: Navigating the Post-Disclosure World

August 25, 2026

Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram YouTube Vimeo TikTok LinkedIn Discord

Online Store Events

Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram YouTube Vimeo TikTok LinkedIn Discord

[Dr. Steven Greer][Dr. Steven Greer]

-   Home
-   News
-   Films
    -   CE5: The New Frontier of Contact (2026)
    -   The Lost Century: And How To Reclaim It (2023)
    -   The Cosmic Hoax: An Exposè (2021)
    -   Close Encounters Of The Fifth Kind – Contact Has Begun (2020)
    -   Unacknowledged: An Expose Of The Greatest Secret in Human History (2017)
    -   Sirius: It Is Time For You To Know (2013)
-   Expeditions
    -   CE5 Introduction
    -   Expeditions with Dr. Steven Greer
    -   Official CE5 Sirius Disclosure Material
    -   Preparing for Making Contact Library
    -   FAQ
-   Energy
    -   Overview
    -   New Energy Research (Coming Soon)
        -   Best Evidence (Coming Soon)
        -   Core & Other Technologies (Coming Soon)
-   Evidence
    -   Overview
    -   Document Library
    -   Photo & Video Library
    -   Witness Testimony
-   CE5 App
-   Membership
-   Get Involved
-   Contact

DONATE

Events

Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram YouTube Vimeo TikTok LinkedIn Discord

[Dr. Steven Greer][Dr. Steven Greer]

Disclosure Program

Dr. Greer, a Key Information Conduit for Whistleblower

June 8, 2023

Facebook Twitter LinkedIn

[]

Dr. Greer met with this whistleblower in March 2022 in Culpepper, VA and has been providing him with information about facilities and operations.

A former intelligence official turned whistleblower has given Congress and the Intelligence Community Inspector General extensive classified information about deeply covert programs that he says possess retrieved intact and partially intact craft of non-human origin.

The information, he says, has been illegally withheld from Congress, and he filed a complaint alleging that he suffered illegal retaliation for his confidential disclosures, reported here for the first time.

Other intelligence officials, both active and retired, with knowledge of these programs through their work in various agencies, have independently provided similar, corroborating information, both on and off the record.

The whistleblower, David Charles Grusch, 36, a decorated former combat officer in Afghanistan, is a veteran of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) and the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO).

He served as the reconnaissance office’s representative to the Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force from 2019-2021. From late 2021 to July 2022, he was the NGA’s co-lead for UAP analysis and its representative to the task force.

Related Posts

Beyond Top Secret: The Era of Disclosure

September 29, 2026

The Dr. Steven Greer Podcast – Episode 24: The U.N.O.D. Letter, August 29 Deadline & Deep State Suppression

September 29, 2026

The Dr. Steven Greer Podcast – Episode 23: Navigating the Post-Disclosure World

August 25, 2026

Catastrophic Disclosure Has Already Begun — Here’s What They’re Hiding. Dr Steven Greer

July 25, 2026

Upcoming Events

Notice

There are no upcoming events.

We Are Social

-    Facebook
-    Twitter
-    Instagram
-    YouTube
-    Vimeo
-    TikTok

Access The Disclosure Project Intelligence Archive Today!

[]

Recent Comments

Meta

-   Log in
-   Entries feed
-   Comments feed
-   WordPress.org

Quick Links

-   Home
-   News
-   Energy
-   Evidence
-   Get Involved
-   Contact

Join Our Newsletter

Enter Email Below: *

Select list(s) to subscribe toA -CSETI List

Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from Dr. Steven Greer. (You can unsubscribe anytime)

Constant Contact Use. Please leave this field blank.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: . You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact

DONATE TODAY AND HELP US SUPPORT:

-   Ongoing work toward Disclosure
-   Development of our new energy lab
-   Disclosure Project Legal Team
-   Disclosure Project Intelligence Archive and more…
-   Click Here to Donate (Desktop only)
-   Click Here to Donate (Mobile Device Only )

Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram YouTube TikTok Vimeo LinkedIn Discord

Copyright © 2026 STAR LLC    |    All Rights Reserved    |     Privacy Policy    |      Terms of Use    |    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

Submit

Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel.
