Close Menu

[Dr. Steven Greer][Dr. Steven Greer]

Subscribe to Updates

Get the latest creative news from FooBar about art, design and business.

What's Hot

Beyond Top Secret: The Era of Disclosure

September 29, 2026

The Dr. Steven Greer Podcast – Episode 24: The U.N.O.D. Letter, August 29 Deadline & Deep State Suppression

September 29, 2026

The Dr. Steven Greer Podcast – Episode 23: Navigating the Post-Disclosure World

August 25, 2026

Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram YouTube Vimeo TikTok LinkedIn Discord

Online Store Events

Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram YouTube Vimeo TikTok LinkedIn Discord

[Dr. Steven Greer][Dr. Steven Greer]

-   Home
-   News
-   Films
    -   CE5: The New Frontier of Contact (2026)
    -   The Lost Century: And How To Reclaim It (2023)
    -   The Cosmic Hoax: An Exposè (2021)
    -   Close Encounters Of The Fifth Kind – Contact Has Begun (2020)
    -   Unacknowledged: An Expose Of The Greatest Secret in Human History (2017)
    -   Sirius: It Is Time For You To Know (2013)
-   Expeditions
    -   CE5 Introduction
    -   Expeditions with Dr. Steven Greer
    -   Official CE5 Sirius Disclosure Material
    -   Preparing for Making Contact Library
    -   FAQ
-   Energy
    -   Overview
    -   New Energy Research (Coming Soon)
        -   Best Evidence (Coming Soon)
        -   Core & Other Technologies (Coming Soon)
-   Evidence
    -   Overview
    -   Document Library
    -   Photo & Video Library
    -   Witness Testimony
-   CE5 App
-   Membership
-   Get Involved
-   Contact

DONATE

Events

Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram YouTube Vimeo TikTok LinkedIn Discord

[Dr. Steven Greer][Dr. Steven Greer]

Energy Main Page

ENERGY

We are working to transform the current energy, environmental and social crisis into a world of sustainability and enlightened abundance. Technological progress in the areas of advanced physics and electromagnetic systems, if appropriately supported, will enable humanity to live on the Earth with a minimal footprint with genuine long-term sustainability.
For over 100 years, these advanced concepts in energy generation have either been ignored or actively suppressed due to the power of fossil fuel based economic and industrial interests.

[]

IMAGINE

a world where every home and village has its own clean source of electrical energy, free from the cost of fossil fuels, nuclear power or a centralized electric grid.

IMAGINE

every means of transportation running off of clean power plants, using no source of fuel and creating no pollution.

power_settings_new

IMAGINE

the developing world blossoming with these new technologies and the equatorial rain forests protected from slash and burn subsistence farming and logging

IMAGINE

all inter-city transportation above the ground and the millions of acres paved over with highways freed for productive agriculture and recreation.

public

IMAGINE

all manufacturing being clean-fuel sourced, using no-cost or low-cost energy.

IMAGINE

the possibility of 100% recycling because the energy cost of transporting recycled materials, processing them and scrubbing pollution out of the air and water approaches zero.

THE NEW EARTH INCUBATOR FUND

ENERGY SUPPRESSION

CONCEPT & PROPOSAL

Dr. Steven M. Greer

INVENTION SECRECY STILL GOING STRONG

by American Federation of Scientists

For over 100 years, advances in electromagnetic systems have allowed for the creation of over-unity (more out-put than manmade input) power generation via the zero point energy (ZPE) field and quantum vacuum. These have been suppressed by way of a number of means both legal and illegal. To date, no inventor, corporation, research team or university has been able to surmount these obstacles.
Since neither the governments of the world nor major corporations have moved decisively towards disclosing these technologies, a new private consortium is needed to achieve this goal.

THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAS A SECRET SYSTEM FOR STALLING PATENTS

Sensitive Application Warning System

READ MORE

ENERGY BRIEFING PREPARED FOR THE PRESIDENT AND MEMBERS OF CONGRESS

This is crucial information offering guidance to solve the most pressing problem of our time.

ENERGY BRIEFING

OPEN-SOURCE “FREE ENERGY” DEVICES

Dear Friends and Supporters of SiriusDisclosure,
Many have sent us reports of open-source “free energy” devices seen on the Internet. We do not have a lab or personnel to experiment with such possibilities.
As many of you know, we have spent many years and over $900,000 traveling the world testing, providing grants to individuals and attempting to find such a device. Many were frauds, others were legitimate- but the inventors wanted to keep the technology secret. In a 2010 case, we provided a grant to a scientist who works for the intelligence community and government (I had seen his lab and what he could do- it was impressive!) and whose supervisors had cleared him to make a Tesla-like device for us- only to later have him threatened by others outside his command.

DEVICE CRITERIA & EVALUATION FORM

TECHNOLOGY CRITERIA

Our goal is to find a device that is a prototype for a robust, safe, zero point technology that can be developed and distributed on a worldwide basis. These rigorous criteria reflect our study of devices over a 20+ year period.

TECHNOLOGY EVALUATION FORM

Please fill out in detail.

Dozens of times we have gotten close to finding such a system- only to have it vanish. The Stan Meyer Collection was bought by a corporation which we learned was threatened. Why? They are doing their work secretively and without the support and knowledge of you, the public.
We have concluded that in order for this technology to succeed, it must be open-source, independently verified and completely reproducible- and this must be done fully in the open, with the whole world watching. Secrecy is our enemy, and has doomed countless inventors to failure. We must learn from history and not repeat it. (See the New Earth Energy Incubator proposal.)
We feel the best way to solve this energy issue is the New Earth Incubator project. Until that is funded our resources are limited as to what we can pursue. However, if you have a working device that meets ALL of the criteria below, please contact us at energy@siriusdisclosure.com.
See the device criteria and technology evaluation form. Please read them very carefully.

WHY NOW?

History is replete with inventors who have discovered and produced amazing clean energy devices. Men like Nikola Tesla, T. Townsend Brown, Stan Meyer and others have shown us it is possible to have all the power we need without burning noxious oil, coal, and gas or risking nuclear damage. For 100 years, however, there have been no significant changes in the way we generate power.
Even now, we continue to pollute and pay large corporations for the power we need to live our lives. We can no longer afford this “business as usual” attitude. We cannot wait for big business to decide to do the right thing on our behalf. We must insist on having and using new technologies that can turn this energy crisis around – starting right now! We must embrace those technologies that are clean and sustainable for centuries to come, and supply them to All Peoples on the earth – now!
Currently the publicly proposed new technologies like solar, wind and hydrogen, would continue to operate via monopolistic, centralized power distribution systems.

Currently the publicly proposed new technologies like solar, wind and hydrogen, would continue to operate via monopolistic, centralized power distribution systems. However, there are technical problems with each of the proposed new energies which is why we believe that they will not “solve” our energy needs over the long term. For example, wind and solar are popular, clean technologies, yet both are subject to weather/climate changes that make them unreliable in many parts of the world. The new power systems we foresee should not require the present power grid system and must be available to all of humanity as a basic right.
Other energy sources such as ethanol will run vehicles, but ethanol production requires massive amounts of fertilizer to grow corn that takes food from people and destroys land fertility while poisoning watersheds with nitrogen runoff. Furthermore it appears to be energy neutral or even energy negative. It is not a sustainable solution to our energy needs. Hydrogen is also being hailed as the fuel of the future, but current methods of production by electrolysis require more energy to create the hydrogen gas than we get back from burning it! In the area of new physics, many inventors have promising theories and ideas, but without a focused concerted research effort we will continue to be years away from actual working devices.

Quick Links

-   Home
-   News
-   Energy
-   Evidence
-   Get Involved
-   Contact

Join Our Newsletter

Enter Email Below: *

Select list(s) to subscribe toA -CSETI List

Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from Dr. Steven Greer. (You can unsubscribe anytime)

Constant Contact Use. Please leave this field blank.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: . You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact

DONATE TODAY AND HELP US SUPPORT:

-   Ongoing work toward Disclosure
-   Development of our new energy lab
-   Disclosure Project Legal Team
-   Disclosure Project Intelligence Archive and more…
-   Click Here to Donate (Desktop only)
-   Click Here to Donate (Mobile Device Only )

Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram YouTube TikTok Vimeo LinkedIn Discord

Copyright © 2026 STAR LLC    |    All Rights Reserved    |     Privacy Policy    |      Terms of Use    |    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

Submit

Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel.
