Close Menu

[Dr. Steven Greer][Dr. Steven Greer]

Subscribe to Updates

Get the latest creative news from FooBar about art, design and business.

What's Hot

Beyond Top Secret: The Era of Disclosure

September 29, 2026

The Dr. Steven Greer Podcast – Episode 24: The U.N.O.D. Letter, August 29 Deadline & Deep State Suppression

September 29, 2026

The Dr. Steven Greer Podcast – Episode 23: Navigating the Post-Disclosure World

August 25, 2026

Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram YouTube Vimeo TikTok LinkedIn Discord

Online Store Events

Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram YouTube Vimeo TikTok LinkedIn Discord

[Dr. Steven Greer][Dr. Steven Greer]

-   Home
-   News
-   Films
    -   CE5: The New Frontier of Contact (2026)
    -   The Lost Century: And How To Reclaim It (2023)
    -   The Cosmic Hoax: An Exposè (2021)
    -   Close Encounters Of The Fifth Kind – Contact Has Begun (2020)
    -   Unacknowledged: An Expose Of The Greatest Secret in Human History (2017)
    -   Sirius: It Is Time For You To Know (2013)
-   Expeditions
    -   CE5 Introduction
    -   Expeditions with Dr. Steven Greer
    -   Official CE5 Sirius Disclosure Material
    -   Preparing for Making Contact Library
    -   FAQ
-   Energy
    -   Overview
    -   New Energy Research (Coming Soon)
        -   Best Evidence (Coming Soon)
        -   Core & Other Technologies (Coming Soon)
-   Evidence
    -   Overview
    -   Document Library
    -   Photo & Video Library
    -   Witness Testimony
-   CE5 App
-   Membership
-   Get Involved
-   Contact

DONATE

Events

Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram YouTube Vimeo TikTok LinkedIn Discord

[Dr. Steven Greer][Dr. Steven Greer]

Disclosure Program

It Was Evident at the Hearings on July 26 That the Illegal Secret Government Agenda of the ETs Being a Threat Is Being Marched Out.

August 3, 2023

Facebook Twitter LinkedIn

There is only one way to combat this. Congress, the media, the public need to be aware of the capabilities of the Illegal Secret Government both in terms of technical capabilities and the criminal actions they are willing to have humans take under the guise of it being ET.  

[]

Here is an example:

In his book, “Forbidden Science 4,”  Dr. Jacques Vallée explains how he came in possession of documents showing that forced “UFO abductions” were conducted by the CIA as psychological warfare experiments.

In an entry dated Thursday, 26 March 1992, Vallée writes:

“I have secured a document confirming that the CIA simulated UFO abductions in Latin America (Brazil and Argentina) as psychological warfare experiments.”

This document would be invaluable in showing the real agenda of the Illegal Secret Government.

There must be other similar documents. Please share them with us so Dr. Greer can get them to Congress and the Pentagon and the media. You will remain anonymous.

We know there are people who have participated in and organized programs that:

-   Created abductions that appear to be ET but are human initiated
-   promoted drug running, arms running and human trafficking made to look ET but are humans funding these black projects and other very dark agendas
-   murdered and killed humans but made it look like ETs perpetrated these crimes.

These events will convince an unwitting public and media that the ETs are a threat when THEY ARE NOT.
The programs cited above are ILLEGAL and rogue. They are NOT supervised by Congress or the Executive branch in a Constitutional manner.
Therefore your NDAs signed to keep you quiet about those programs are invalid and cannot be upheld in a court of law.
It is the humans grasping for power and control that are the threat.
They must be exposed by people who wittingly or unwittingly have participated in those programs.
It is time for the LEGAL US Government to regain control of these programs.
YOU CAN HELP by coming forward with documents and accounts to reveal these ILLEGAL secrets.
Please take heart from those brave men who came forward at the National Press Club on June 12, 2023.
Please write to witnesses@SiriusDisclosure.com.
All correspondence will be kept confidential.

Watch Compelling Testimony From the June 12, 2023 Disclosure Project National Press Club Event

Related Posts

Beyond Top Secret: The Era of Disclosure

September 29, 2026

The Dr. Steven Greer Podcast – Episode 24: The U.N.O.D. Letter, August 29 Deadline & Deep State Suppression

September 29, 2026

The Dr. Steven Greer Podcast – Episode 23: Navigating the Post-Disclosure World

August 25, 2026

Catastrophic Disclosure Has Already Begun — Here’s What They’re Hiding. Dr Steven Greer

July 25, 2026

Upcoming Events

Notice

There are no upcoming events.

We Are Social

-    Facebook
-    Twitter
-    Instagram
-    YouTube
-    Vimeo
-    TikTok

Access The Disclosure Project Intelligence Archive Today!

[]

Recent Comments

Meta

-   Log in
-   Entries feed
-   Comments feed
-   WordPress.org

Quick Links

-   Home
-   News
-   Energy
-   Evidence
-   Get Involved
-   Contact

Join Our Newsletter

Enter Email Below: *

Select list(s) to subscribe toA -CSETI List

Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from Dr. Steven Greer. (You can unsubscribe anytime)

Constant Contact Use. Please leave this field blank.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: . You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact

DONATE TODAY AND HELP US SUPPORT:

-   Ongoing work toward Disclosure
-   Development of our new energy lab
-   Disclosure Project Legal Team
-   Disclosure Project Intelligence Archive and more…
-   Click Here to Donate (Desktop only)
-   Click Here to Donate (Mobile Device Only )

Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram YouTube TikTok Vimeo LinkedIn Discord

Copyright © 2026 STAR LLC    |    All Rights Reserved    |     Privacy Policy    |      Terms of Use    |    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

Submit

Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel.
