Date:
Author:
Memorandum to Trump
Feb 9, 2025
Steven M. Greer, MD
Document ID:
28272
Memorandum
From: Steven M. Greer, MD – Director of The Disclosure Project.
To: President Donald J. Trump
Re: The UFO/UAP subject
Since the 1950s, the UFO/UAP subject has been handled by a corrupt deep state transnational
organization whose power has grown to a level that it is an imminent threat to national security and
international peace and security.
This organization is a hybrid of unconstitutional deep state and government compartmented operations
and corporate special projects. It has reverse-engineered non-human intelligence (NHI) craft and is
operating man-made advanced technologies at parity with NHI technologies. These human technologies
are currently being used in a number of criminal operations including assassinations, abductions,
human/drug/ weapons trafficking, embezzlement of US government funds, acts of treason and have the
capability to simulate a fake alien attack at any moment.
I have debriefed over 700 government and corporate whistleblowers over the past 35 years and have
documented their information in the Briefing Document provided to your staff.
The following Executive Orders are urgently needed.
1. Explicit whistleblower protection specifying both legal amnesty and personal security.
2. An Executive Order authorizing a TS-SCI SAP with significant funding currently configured under
law enforcement to stand down these illegal operations and especially the illegal use of electromagnetic pulse weapons (EMP) currently being used against NHI craft as these actions imperil
the future of humanity
3. An Executive Order requiring all such UFO/UAP operations to be fully disclosed within 6 months
or those responsible will be vigorously prosecuted.
4. An Executive Order to authorize an advanced diplomatic team to make peaceful contact with
the NHI civilizations.
5. An Executive Order authorizing the review and release of Advanced Technology (AT) held by this
criminal organization that would create total energy independence for the US and would begin a
new energy economy with which the US would lead the world economically.
Please feel free to contact me at any time. I am the world’s leading expert on this subject. There is not a
distant second. I will provide any assistance, advice and evidence that you and your administration
require.
Respectfully yours,
Steven M. Greer MD

