Bilderberg 2013: The Birth Of A Global Tax System

The secret gathering has been gradually forced into public view in recent years, and the run-up to Bilderberg 2013 has been one of great anticipation and not without its share of news.

First came the false start from the alternative media regarding the meeting’s actual location, with many claiming it would be held again at the Westfield Marriot in Chantilly, Virginia. This was followed by the announcement that the meeting will take place 30 minutes north of London, at the Grove Hotel in Hertfordshire, England, and small media circus is expected the year following the announcement that a ‘Bilderberg Fringe’ festival is being organized adjacent to the venue - an event certain to attract hundreds, if not thousands of revelers, press and alternative media personalities. Add to this the news that long time Bilderberg sleuth and American Free Press correspondent, Jim Tucker had passed away on April 24th. Few people would even know the Bilderberg meetings ever took place if not for 30 years of digging and reporting by veteran journalist Tucker.

Beyond all the fanfare, however, the central question still remains: what items will be on the agenda at this year’s ultra-secret transatlantic steering committee? The answer to this question may be hidden in plain site.

Google is currently engaged in a battle over unpaid taxes in the UK, and which has led political commentators to now call for a new system of global taxation. Not surprisingly, this has become the chief topic of discussion at a series of global summits taking place during May and June.

Here’s how this major issue rose out of the Google debate, and how it will be folded into Bilderberg’s 2013 agenda, and later to the G8 Summit shortly thereafter…

This past week witnessed another major global conference held at the very same Grove Hotel in Hertfordshire. The parallels to Bilderberg are striking – they share the same guests, the same venue, observe similar codes on conduct, and no doubt have similar items on their agenda. Google’s ‘Zeitgeist’ Global Summit, or “Big Tent” event, is effectively the internet’s version of a ‘Digital Davos’, where ‘the best and the brightest’ are invited to hear debates and keynote speeches from the likes of Bill Clinton, UK Chancellor George Osborne, UK Labour Party leader Ed Miliband and other celebrities including Stephen Hawking.

It’s worth pointing out here that both Osborne and Miliband have played the role of Google’s adversary in public during their corporation tax row, yet they are the corporation’s VIP guests in private.

Beyond the high profile talks and entertainment, there were of course, some serious discussion about ‘big ideas’ taking place under the big tent. This year’s event also required participants to observe ‘Chatham House Rules’, meaning key conversations should be held in the strictest of confidence and not be leaked to the outside world. As with Bilderberg, Google’s Big Tent discusses serious global changes that affect present and future generations - all behind closed doors.

Other persons of note at this year’s Google retreat were former US attorney general and Bush legal brain, Alberto Gonzales, alongside former Secretary of State Hillary ‘innovation’ adviser, Alec Ross, key Putin advisor Arkady Dvorkovich, and Swedish foreign affairs minister, Carl Bildt (Bilderberg attendee 2006-2012). The profile of Google and Bilderberg guests has seen an incredible overlap in recent years, which is a testament to the corporation’s own stated ambition to achieve a global dominion, not only over its marketplace, but over cultural and political life as well. The reality in 2013 is that Google is poised to manage nearly every aspect of our lives - our communications, our work, our social life and even our history.

As Google’s global summit runs smoothly into Bilderberg this year, so have the two meeting agendas. Recent years have seen an increase in the influx of digital tycoons present at Bilderberg. Alongside software moguls like Craig Mundie, Head of Research and Strategy Officer at Microsoft (Bilderberg attendee 2006-2012), and Google CEO Eric Schmidt (Bilderberg attendee 2007-2011), the social media kingpins have also moved in to occupy key positions in Bilderberg’s top steering committees.

A key player in amongst them is Peter Thiel, head of Clarium Capital, the digital investment house that provided the financial clout which allowed for online ventures like Paypal, Facebook, LinkedIn and Friendster to dominate their digital marketplaces. Thiel was promoted to Bilderberg committee head in 20ll and has emerged as a key player not only in the online industries, but also as an influencer in US political spheres, gaining attention recently as a prominent backer of Kentucky’s Republican junior Senator Rand Paul.

The convergence of the Google Summit, its tax battle, and Bilderberg 2013 may seem innocent enough on its surface, but the timing is no mere coincidence. UK leadership have whipped up a frenzy in the media over Google’s alleged tax sins, leaving the public clamouring for a solution. The words “never let a good crisis go to waste” certainly chime in well here.

Two weeks ago, a major UK clash erupted between No. 10 Downing Street and Google over the issue of corporate tax evasion. Google’s Matt Brittin was grilled by the UK’s Commons Public Accounts Committee (PAC) and its chair Margaret Hodge, who accused Google “doing evil” by using an elaborate array of offshore entities in a “smoke and mirrors” financial maze designed to avoid paying any significant tax into UK coughers. Both PM David Cameron and Chancellor George Osborne also came out loudly in public accusing Google of being ‘immoral’. Google is said to have only chipped in 6 million GBP in 2011 out of its 3 billion GBP turnover in that same year. Google’s Peter Baron claims its in full compliance with UK law, issuing the public statement last week that, “None of the allegations put to us change the fact that Google pays the corporate tax due on its UK activities and complies fully with UK law.”

As the public feud between Google and Downing Street takes centre stage, backstage both UK Chancellor George Osborne and Google CEO Eric Schmidt - both committed fellow Bilderberg members, are said to have met in private at the Google event, and are poised to do so again at Bilderberg 2013. Both have attended the annual meeting almost continuously since 2006.

So this apparent Punch ‘n Judy match between Google and Downing Street appears just three weeks before this year’s Bilderberg summit, and four weeks before the G8, and suddenly the UK government and media outlets have become infested with a the new talking point: “we need for a new ‘global profit tax’.

While addressing the Google tax loophole, the UK’s Independent newspaper led by its liberal-leaning economics editor Ben Chu, goes on to essentially lay-out what is likely to be at the top of the agenda at Bilderberg 2013:

The cascade of revelations in recent months showing multinational companies doing a huge amount of business here and yet paying virtually no corporation tax has provoked widespread public demands for something to be done.

National governments could and should try to put a stop to this egregious "profit shifting" on their own. But a unilateral approach is plainly second best.

The natural solution is to secure an agreement by all the world's governments to tax the profits of multinational firms collectively and to divide up the revenues fairly between them. This division could be based on the amount of business done by the multinational in their various territories as revealed by their turnover and number of employees.

So is Google supplying the Trojan horse that many have been warning about for so many years? Maybe.

Will Bilderberg’s global elite use this perfect crisis moment as a pretext to build the framework for global taxation?

Although happy to float such a revolutionary idea in the media in advance of back-to-back Google and Bilderberg summits at the Grove Hotel, one thing which global taxation advocates fail to mention here is that if you institute a global taxation system then you would then need a global government to administrate it. Yes, you heard that right: global taxation = global government.

UK Column Editor Mike Robinson explains, “I think that the embryonic global institutions are already in place, and we’re going to see them being given more and more real ‘jobs’ to do as time goes on, and collecting corporation tax is clearly going to be one of those”.

History can certainly prove one thing: that the world’s wealthiest individuals corporations have consistently exploited all international tax loopholes for years now. Whatever commentators like Ben Chu and others are proposing will obviously be much easier to enforce on small to medium size businesses, as well as individual traders - all of whom have significantly less political leverage (and no invitations to Bilderberg) than the Googles and Facebooks of the world.

Following the ratification of Bilderberg’s 2013 agenda in Watford on June 6–9th, the next step is normally to disseminate this same agenda on to the G8 heads of state. Conveniently, this year’s G8 summit will held June 17-18 at the Lough Erne golf resort in Fermanagh, Northern Ireland. David Cameron and George Osborne’s new plan for Google is already expected to be very high on the agenda at the G8 meeting, where world leaders including Barack Obama and Vladimir Putin will be in attendance. Henceforth, ahead of the G8, the UK government is expected to play their key role in promoting the new global tax system, by publically advocating, “new strong international standards to make sure that global companies pay the tax they owe.”

Coincidentally, this year’s G8 in Northern Ireland will be the biggest police operation in country’s history (and that’s saying a lot), with an estimated 8,000 officers from the surrounding counties, and from as far as England and Wales, all drafted in to secure the area for what many now believe has essentially become a global government operations meeting in all but name.

The financial component of this global tax and government equation is actually already in place, and that is the World Bank. The first administrative working model for a global taxation structure was originally unveiled in 2009 at the United Nations Climate Summit in Copenhagen. Delegates at that event floated their plan for a global carbon tax that would be collected and then deposited into a slush fund which was to be administered by the World Bank. There plan also entailed the poorer, developing nations footing most of the bill for this operation, while the wealthier nations would receive a free pass. The secret plan was thwarted at the last minute thanks to the infamous Danish Text Leak, which were serialized in the Guardian newspaper at the time.

Although popular in socialist circles, few have dared reveal the true picture of a global tax regime for fear of triggering a public backlash. Another such tax proposals have been pushed into the public sphere through the Occupy Movement in 2011, with called for a global tax on financial transactions, or a global “Robin Hood Tax”. As was the case in Copenhagen two years earlier, proponents called for a tax structure without borders, yet few dared mention who would be in charge of administering and distributing the revenues. Such plans pose the very real danger of further centralizing power into the international banking community who would be asked to handle and perhaps hypothecate on these enormous slush funds.

Which brings us back to this latest global ‘google tax’ proposal, which ultimately begs the question: when will their global government structure be unveiled?

Plans for erecting an entirely new global tax system should worry anyone who values the concept of national sovereignty because any solution that entails the collection of  tax by way of elite international “collective”  of nations, and where “revenues are to divided up fairly between them” is suggesting a form of global collectivism, or communism. This is also the fundamental problem with EU plans to levy new taxes on member nations – for any citizen it’s simply another master to serve.

Shocking as that may be, these issues are exactly what is being discussed behind closed doors at each of these global summits taking place in May and June of 2013.

What’s worse, is that this entire construct could be ushered in without any vote being cast by an citizen in the individual countries - which is about as undemocratic as it gets. This remains one of the fundamental flaws at the heart of the seemingly utopian ideal which is global government.

Patrick Henningsen is founder and managing editor of the news website 21st Century Wire.

The UK Column is an independent multimedia news website supported by its members.

© 2006-2024 UK Column. For permission to use any content on this website please contact us.

All major corporate media outlets were quick to cite this film as being solely responsible for simultaneous violent uprisings in both Libya and Egypt. Upon closer examination of event leading up to those protests however, it is now clear that this film was deployed as a very sophisticated public relations tool designed to antagonize the global Muslim population in a way that has furthered the western narrative of East vs. West and the fabled “clash of civilisations” which has fueled a global War on Terror, now in its 11th year, costing the global economy hundreds of billions with no tangible benefit to either security or international peace. Evidence further suggests that this film sensation neither caused those demonstrations, nor was it a purpose-made movie which was design to incite Islamic rage.

Following those initial protests which occurred in Libya and Egypt, and through a sustained western media effort, the film was artificially attached to the wave of discontent and soon took on a life of its own – becoming a catalyst for extreme public rage in Sudan, Somalia, Yemen, Pakistan, Afghanistan and India.

Western media talking point strategies have been laid bare through the unfolding of this story. The film was quickly labeled ‘amateurish’ and ‘low budget’ by US-led media organisations like al Jazeera, claiming that ‘the Muslim street has voiced its anger and Muslim countries worldwide are now calling for international anti-blasphemy laws’. This set the stage for a rather controlled UN debate, with US President Barack Obama taking the podium to fend off member states’ Islamic calls for criminalizing and holding members of the public accountable by introducing new international fines and judicial charges via a newly proposed legal framework, through new international ‘hate speech’ laws, in what Obama described as unworkable, as he appeared to defend Americans’ right to ‘freedom of expression’.

"The Innocence of Muslims" - taken from the film

A quick appraisal of the production values visible in the Mohammad film reveals that it is anything but low budget, employing some forty or more actors with full wardrobe and make-up detail, post production and grading, as well as a fully functional Middle East set with Hollywood standard sound and lighting production. The price tag for this production could easily be estimated around $500,000 USD, with other estimates coming in excess of $1 million USD.  Hyping it as an ‘amateurish film’ appears to be part of a coordinated media effort to fashion it into a mere irresponsible and reckless YouTube video – effectively opening the door for acceptable censorship of all YouTube content down the road.

The most intriguing, yet least reported aspect of this media event, however, is how this film was manipulated by its alleged creators, and then again by a series of YouTube publishers. It is important to premise that nothing about the making or the dissemination of this film is straightforward, and all available evidence indicates that is a very complex and expensive piece of antagonistic propaganda at its best, and a carefully planned psy-op at its worst.

First off, the title of the film, ‘The Innocence of Muslims’, had three other previous incarnations. The original casting call for this Los Angeles-based production was in July 2011 when it was titled, ‘Desert Warriors’. The film was then made and is reported to have been screened to an empty cinema at the Vine Theatre in LA on June 30, 2012 where it was titled, ‘The Innocence of Bin Laden’, after which time it was serialized on a Youtube channel attributed to one Sam Bacile (a pseudonym) on July 1st and titled, ‘Real Life of Mohammed’.  Its final name change of ‘Innocence of Muslims’ came later when it appeared as a 14 minute highlight reel of the full film on September 10th on a YouTube channel credited to ‘News Politics Now’. According to American researcher and commentator Montagraph, ‘News Politics Now’ can be linked to Stanley and Associates, a US government defense contractor based in Arlington, VA.

The film’s alleged producer, ‘Sam Bacile’, is likely one Nakoula Basseley Nakoula – apparently a US-based Egyptian Coptic Christian, and revealed by the website Smoking Gun to be a US federal informant, with an earlier conviction for check fraud. To date, there is little evidence to confirm any details of Nakoula’s actual involvement in the film, but based on his informant profile, it is more than likely he is a compromised individual who is playing the role of mascot for the controversial film.

Steve Klein - US Military Veteran and Federal Counter Terrorism expert

More persons of interest are Steve Klein and Allan Roberts aka Robert Brownell. Klein is listed as a ‘consultant’ on the film who is a US military veteran and a federal counter terrorism expert. Brownell is owner of conservative Christian websites Spirit Lesson and Divine Revelations. These connections point to a chain linking the Hollywood film finance community, the US federal government and the Christian Zionist movement in America. The reaction to this film was all too predictable, but it should be noted that the initial protests in Libya and Egypt were not a result of the film’s release on YouTube, but subsequent riots in Sudan, Somalia, Pakistan, Afghanistan and Yemen were as result of western media’s concerted efforts to attribute Muslim unrest solely to the YouTube phenomenon.

The fake media event was then used as leverage by the western media, and parroted by the US government to appear as the ‘lone catalyst’ for Muslim rage, and later on, in order to incite a wave of Muslim protests around the anniversary of Sept 11th. By controlling the timing of these events, western ring masters were able to promote their ‘clash of civilizations’ narrative and frame all anti-NATO and anti-American events as the work of an irrational and extremist Islamic mob who are hell-bent on destroying both the western Judeo-Christian and secular ways of life. The violent lynching of US Ambassador Christopher Stephens and members of his staff, along with the sacking of US Embassies in Libya and Egypt were also attributed to the release of the Mohammad film and the ‘clash of civilisations’, rather than to boiling angst directed at the NATO architects and the bureaucrats they installed in Libya who have systematically looted the country and collapsed society following the toppling and execution of Mummar Qaddafi and his government.

In reality, at least two different protests were scheduled that week, well in advance of the Mohammad film coming into full public view. In thorough fashion, western intelligence agencies appear to have organised rear cover for this event, informing the media with information implying that it was “al Qaida” who carried out the attack on the US Embassy in Benghazi as revenge for the supposed death in Pakistan by U.S. drone strike on June 4, 2012 of Libyan-born Abu Yahya Al Libi (aka Hassan Mohammed Qaid), another al Qaida’s “number two man”. It should be noted that any so-called ‘al Qaida’ public decrees are more than likely to be directed and coordinated by western shadow agencies, and thus considered as controlled opposition in the extreme.

Most likely, and more credible a story was that the anti-western, anti-NATO grass-roots movement led mostly by Qaddafi loyalists in Libya are beginning to act out what the majority 5.6 million Libyans believe - that NATO and its proxy terrorists have managed to destroy the country over the last 18 months, taking with it the highest standard of living in Africa which is unlikely to return to its people ever again.

Leading these protests is a group whom western architects are hoping to erase from public existence, known in Libya as the Green Resistance, or “Tahloob” in Arabic for “loyalists”, comprised of anti-western and pro-Qaddafi members whose remit is clearly that of anti-NATO, and anti-imperialists, as well as pro-secular nationalist – a far cry from Washington and NATO’s Islamist puppets installed in Tripoli and Benghazi. They striking western and NTC targets, and have been reported to have executed Libyan collaborators who betrayed Qaddafi and sided with NATO. It would be standard protocol for CIA and other western or Israeli intelligence agencies to try and infiltrate this resistance movement, and then radicalise it along Jihadist lines a transformation which could be achieved by gradually picking-off its ideological leadership and then replacing it with American, British or Israeli-controlled al Qaida agents.

Given the genuine anti-US and anti-NATO sentiment across North Africa and the Middle East, it is clear that neither the US or its NATO member states cannot fully control authentic ‘Arab Spring’ uprisings in countries like Libya, Egypt, Yemen, Bahrain, Tunisia and Sudan, where the underclasses have seen no actual improvement in their socio-economic conditions. It appears that the ideal political and civil model for the west in these countries is a hard-handed militarised police state with an ineffectual but subservient, pro-western puppet leader installed at the helm. Aside from the obvious energy and resource prizes up for grabs, western international banking financiers  and their arms dealing and producing clientele are then able to profit from destablisation and police state measures in these countries, further perpetuating the economic circle fueled by western intervention and aggressive foreign policy.

Based on recent history, it should be evident that enemy number one of US, UK, French, Israeli and NATO allies – is any independent secular nationalist state in the region. We can also add here that any nation who is not tied into US foreign aid and privatized international banking, and privatized national utility and infrastructural assets. Both Libya and Syria – as well as Iran, fit squarely into this geopolitical and all of these countries have been targeted both politically and militarily by the US and its NATO allies for regime change, with desires for national restructuring as future banking and imperialist-friendly client states in the region.

In the end, none of this can be achieved without the consent of western democratic constituencies, and this means that the ‘clash of civilisations’, or East vs. West narrative must be continually propagated by the political classes and corporate media in the west in order the maintain a climate of fear and an arch of tension and continual conflict across the Middle East and Central Asia. The controversial Mohammad film was merely a tool used to further this open and unapologetic policy which many analysts believe is inching the world closer towards a multiregional global military conflict.

Patrick Henningsen is founder and managing editor of the news website 21st Century Wire.

The UK Column is an independent multimedia news website supported by its members.

© 2006-2024 UK Column. For permission to use any content on this website please contact us.

NICOSIA – In approximately three weeks time, the island of Cyprus will begin receiving its annual cash injection – from holiday tourism. That’s what’s known as a ‘good injection’.

After only a day here, it’s become very clear that the people of Cyprus are concerned, some even scared – about a financial contagion and shock treatment which threatens their future prosperity.

Soon, they will get another ‘bad’ injection, which we are told will be deadly. So we are treating this like a crime scene.  The next injection will be administered by ‘Dr Troika’. Just utter his name in public here and you will see wrinkles in people’s faces.

The people of Cyprus did not ask for this, yet, they are being forced to take it by the mad economic doctors in Brussels, Berlin and the IMF. It’s the sort of bad medicine that the banking syndicates and corrupt officials have been administering for a while now, in order to take down governments and economies all over the globe with devastating effect.

I arrived in Cyprus on Wednesday night, and was joined by UK-based writer and talk show host Jason Liosatos from Global Peace Radio.  We headed to the capital city of Nicosia the next morning to document what many were expecting to be a run on the island’s banks at noon. After 15 days of closed doors to hundreds of thousands of residents, their savings had been locked inside the banks during the extended “bank holiday”. This particular ‘holiday’ will go down in history as one of the worse on record.

Depositors waiting in line after a long ‘bank holiday’ in Cyprus (Image: 21WIRE)

The lines began forming around 11am, but to everyone’s surprise – except the Cypriots’ of course, the lines were not as long as many expected, and not as long as the corporate mainstream media expected either. Most were hoping for a fight in front of both the old town’s Bank of Cyprus (good bank) and Laiki Bank (bad bank) branches.

The majority of those queuing were older people, but these included many of the top depositors whose life savings have been clipped by the Troika.

We asked around and quickly learned why the Cypriots did not all rush the bank on Thursday at high noon. Many residents told us there was a community feeling that islanders did not want to stress the Bank of Cyprus by storming its branches. Strict capital controls have been put into place to slow the cash hemorrhaging this week, with most residents restricted to 300 euros per day, for four days, followed by an official assessment of the situation.

There’s a lot of talk of Cyprus’s potential riches from untapped gas and oil, and many residents believe the bankers have taken down the economy here in order to exchange the island’s future riches for a series of expensive (if not utterly debilitating) ECB and IMF loans. But that’s still a ways off, and more pressing matters are salary cuts, pension cuts, a flight of wealth off of the island, and of course – that fact that people’s money is being literally stolen from their accounts.

When elites go to war, and fight their financial battles, it seems that the only victims are the average mom and pop. After meeting with several local residents and business owners, it came abundantly clear that even the street sweepers knew that a criminal banking syndicate had held a gun to their heads and then stolen their money in broad daylight.

PHOTO: We sit down with the neighborhood guys who really know what’s going on with Cyprus bank collapse, and do foreign exchange over coffee.

A retired resident, Mr Andreas, explained, “We Cypriots have dignity. I had only 3 euros in my pocket for the last week – enough only to buy a cup of coffee, but I will not line up today and beg the Troika for my daily withdrawal of 300 euros.”

He adds, “Our friends in Europe have treated us like gangsters and criminals. Our government leaders have made mistakes, yes, but why are we being forced to pay? It’s blackmail. This is stealing from the people, that’s all.”

Not surprisingly, there were no Russian Oligarchs waiting to get inside any of the island’s branches on Thursday, many of them apparently withdrew their money from Russian-based branches of Laiki and Cyprus banks which remained open – at the same time that the banks in Cyprus were shut.

Mr Kiriakos, a local bar owner lamented over a beer with us before closing shop, explaining the reality of this latest banker-led heist in Cyprus. “I’ve been working all my life – 30 years, so I can send my daughters to university and give them a better life than I had, and they can just come and take that money?

They are running a big casino, when they win they put the money in their pockets, but if  they lose… they take the money out of our pockets.”

Cyprus Day 2: As the Dust Settles, Talk of Reciprocity and Whispers of Retribution

Cyprus Day 3: The Sword of Damocles Still Hangs Over the Island

RT in Cyprus: ‘Troika will take everything and push Russians out’

Filed Under: Europe, Featured, Financial, International News Tagged With: 300 euros a day, Bank of Cyprus, Capital Controls, Cyprus, ECB, EU, Fear and Loathing, IMF, Nicosia, Troika

EP #557 – ‘Inhumanity Inc’ with Patrick Henningsen and guests

Will Trump and Putin Meet Face to Face? – Lt Col Daniel Davis with Patrick Henningsen

UKC News: Dutch Intelligence Deem Israel a Threat + British Plan for Baltic False Flag

Speaker Johnson’s West Bank Visit: A Catalyst for Criticism

Featured, Israel, Israeli Settlers, Middle East, Netanyahu, OPT, Palestine, settlements, United Nations, US News, West Bank

MIDWEEK WIRE – ‘Playing With Nuclear Fire’ – Patrick Henningsen and Freddie Ponton

#NeverTrump, Featured, Freddie Ponton, Midweek Wire Show, NATO, nuclear, Patrick Henningsen, Trump, WWIII

The Gaza Humanitarian Foundation: The Intersection of Information Warfare and Humanitarian Aid

famine, Featured, Gaza, genocide, Human Rights, Israel, Middle East, Palestine

UK Accused by Russian Intelligence of Masterminding a Sabotage Campaign Against Russian Shadow Fleet

energy, Europe, Featured, Keir Starmer, NATO, Nordstream 2, Norway, Oil, Russia, sanctions, Ukraine

‘Calm Seas and Fair Winds’ for The Global Sumud Flotilla to Gaza

Featured, Gaza, Gaza Flotilla, Israel, Middle East, Palestine, siege, Tunisia

famine, Featured, Gaza, genocide, Human Rights, Israel, Middle East, Palestine

The Illusion of Justice: Israel’s Military Investigation’s Theatre in Gaza

Featured, Gaza, History, Human Rights, Israel, Middle East, Palestine, war crimes

SUNDAY WIRE EP 557 – ‘Inhumanity Inc’ with Patrick Henningsen and guests
