TRAVELING THE WORLD, WRITING WHAT THE PEOPLE NEED TO KNOW.

-   Bill Gates’ Web Of Dark Money And Influence

-   The Great Narrative and The Metaverse, Part 1: A Dystopian Vision of the Future

-   The Great Narrative And The Metaverse, Part 2: Will The Metaverse End Human Freedom?

-   Part 1: Multiple Studies Predicted Governments Become Authoritarian in Response to Pandemics

-   Part 2: The Rise of Authoritarianism: From Parasite Stress Theory to Lockstep

-   Justice Delayed: An Investigation into Gordon B. Hinckley & Walton Hunter

-   Bethany Christian Services and the Adoption Industrial Complex

-   WEF Warns of Cyber Attack Leading to Systemic Collapse of the Global Financial System

-   CIA/Mossad-Linked Surveillance Systems Quietly Installed Throughout The US

-   The SolarWinds Hack & The Takeover Of The US

-   The Opening Act Of The New “War On Domestic Terror”

-   The Israel Lobby’s Anti-Muslim Agenda And Criminalization Of Free Speech

-   What The Hell Is Happening w/ Charlie Robinson (10/1/26)

-   Irregular: The Israeli Company with Intelligence Ties at the Center of the Rogue AI Incidents

-   The Great Reset Of Global Governance and The Old Guard’s Obscene Profiteering On The Way Down

-   Trump Rejects Peace (Again), Alleged “Terror Plot” On US Base In UK & MSM Admits Oct 7 Foreknowledge

-   The Chemotherapy Lie, For-Profit Medical Tyranny & Palantir’s NHS Take Over

-   Structural Shift In Governance: Private Data Centers Armed w/ Drones/DEWS As Critical Infrastructure

-   The Mexican Government Is Cutting Off Users Who Refuse to Register Their Phone Lines

-   Trump To Send Israel Largest-Ever Disclosed Sale of 1-Ton Bombs

-   How Trump Swindled Americans and Sold Out The Country To Technocrats

-   New Poll: 41% of Gen Z Says US Officials Let the 9/11 Attacks Happen

-   The New “AI Detector” Push Masks Much Darker Surveillance/Pre-Crime Agenda

-   Twitter’s Free Speech Illusion Finally Shatters & Trump Refuses To Admit He Lost The War With Iran

-   What The Hell Is Happening w/ Charlie Robinson (9/3/26)

-   Trump Presses Self Destruct Button With Iran For Israel’s Sake

-   The Kushner-Soros-Trump Connection & How Elitists Feign The Left/Right Divide To Control The Masses

-   New Study: Children Exposed to Fluoride in the Womb Score Lower on Problem-Solving Tests

-   Trump Has Allowed Invasive Israeli Spyware Tech To Infiltrate The US and Surveil Americans

-   Digital Backdoors: Trump’s Emergency Order Targets Foreign Remote-Access Threats (Ignores Israel)

-   Homeland Advanced Recognition Technology: The Largest US Biometric Database You’ve Never Heard Of

-   Controlled Political Leak Pipeline Exposed, Trump’s Mystery Beef & The Control Grid Materializes

-   Patrick Henningsen Interview – The Dying American Empire, Lies About Iran & The Coup Within The US

Conspiracy Foreign Policy Geopolitics Globalism Government Interviews Military Podcast Politics Propaganda Psychological Operations Regime Change Ryan Cristian Social Engineering Top News War Crimes World

Patrick Henningsen Interview – The Dying American Empire, Lies About Iran & The Coup Within The US

Posted on April 6, 2026 Author Ryan CristiánComments(4) 4410 Views

Podcast: Play in new window | Download | Embed

Joining me today is Patrick Henningsen, here to discuss largely the Iran war—and the many lies surrounding it—as he has just returned from Iran where he was able to definitively debunk numerous western lies about what recently took place in the country. We also discuss the shifting political landscape of the United States and the growing awareness of the broken nature of the US political system. Finally we address the hard truth that many are struggling with, and that is the possibility that the American Empire may be dying, and whether there was a recent coup d’état in the US that helped hasten its demise.

See all of Patrick Henningsen and his team’s work here:

21st Century Wire – News for the Waking Generation

(21) Scott Ritter on X: “@MarioNawfal This statement disqualifies you as an analyst on the issue. And is one of the reasons I won’t be returning to your podcast. You have an agenda. And it’s not the truth.” / X

(21) Patrick Henningsen on X: ““SO MUCH WINNING” The MAGA cope is really pathetic. It’s like a cult. Aborted mission. 12 aircraft lost, a complete disaster. *Worse than Carter*. Operation Epic Failure continues…” / X

(21) Patrick Henningsen on X: ““So far Iran is one of the most successful US military actions of all time.” The IQ of the MAGA punditry class is plummeting faster than Truth Social stock price….” / X

(21) The Last American Vagabond on X: “Each one of these accounts has an artificially huge following. Yet as individuals represent a very small percentage of the conversation. Despite that, this ecosystem has the ability to give a false impression of what the majority thinks. This platform is playing you.” / X

(21) Patrick Henningsen on X: “🔴 UNMASKING WESTERN HYPOCRISY: THE TRUTH BEHIND IRAN’S RIOTS AND GLOBAL REACTIONS Ever wondered why violent protests in Iran are portrayed so differently from similar events in the West? This eye-opening clip exposes the double standards and hypocrisy in Western media https://t.co/ZR92QyjodR” / X

(21) Daniel Davis Deep Dive on X: “🔴 Iran’s Red Line EXPOSED – Just back from Tehran, Patrick Henningsen (@21WIRE) warns: a U.S. strike isn’t “limited.” It’s a regional firestorm. 🚨 “This will invariably be a regional war… engaging 6-9 countries.” “The Iranians have drawn a firm red line… any attack https://t.co/e74wBieQC7” / X

(21) sarah on X: “Journalist in Iran confirms Trump and Israel have bombed: • 30 universities • 760 schools • Hospitals • Professors assassinated. • University students killed in their own homes. This isn’t “liberation.” This is the systematic destruction of Iran’s scientific future. https://t.co/1kcibqcNPp” / X

Trump’s Claims Of An Iranian Defector Belied By New US Proposals For Current Iranian Leadership

(21) Drop Site on X: “💢 BREAKING | For the SIXTH time since March 22, US President Trump extends his deadline to “obliterate” Iran’s power plants unless the Strait of Hormuz is fully reopened. The deadline has now been delayed by 34 hours and goes from Monday 10 am to 8 pm on Tuesday. Full recap: https://t.co/vilGJ15jof” / X

(21) Trita Parsi on X: “Disgraceful! The US/Israel just bombed Sharif University in Tehran. This is not only Iran’s best university, but also a top 100 global university in the field of Civil Engineering. It has also been a center of student opposition to the Iranian gov And Trump just bombed it… https://t.co/eLPA09BFhY” / X

(21) *Walter Bloomberg on X: “🚨 U.S. OFFICIAL: 45‑DAY IRAN CEASEFIRE PLAN STILL JUST AN IDEA A White House official told an Axios reporter that the proposed 45‑day ceasefire between the U.S. and Iran is “one of many ideas” being discussed and that the president has not signed off on it.”” / X

(21) Al Jazeera Breaking News on X: “Iranian media has published video showing the charred wreckage of US aircraft, worth more than $200M, in Isfahan. Iran says it destroyed them during a ‘failed US rescue attempt’, while the US Air Force says it destroyed its own MC-130J transport planes after a mechanical failure. https://t.co/xRLPTyCBrd” / X

(21) Arnaud Bertrand on X: “So, if I got that right, here’s the narrative: – A US F-15E fighter jet got shot down over Iran, despite Trump saying 2 days beforehand in his nationwide address that Iran has “no anti-aircraft equipment. Their radar is 100% annihilated.” (https://t.co/4W6BNpJjoE) – The plane’s” / X

(21) Arash Reisinezhad on X: “Emerging evidence suggests that U.S. operations south of Isfahan (marked in red on the map) were unrelated to any pilot rescue mission. The downed American pilot was reportedly located in southwest Iran, near Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad Province (marked in blue on the map), not https://t.co/5pZezRrNYb” / X

(21) Financelot on X: “The “downed pilot” was a fake cover story for a failed US military operation to capture Iran’s primary stockpile of highly enriched 60% uranium, roughly 440–970 pounds. The primary stockpile is located at Isfahan, exactly where the pilot was “lost.” This explains why the US https://t.co/cg32pgLmzi” / X

IAEA Director General Grossi’s Statement to UNSC on Situation in Iran | International Atomic Energy Agency

(21) The Solari Report | Catherine Austin Fitts on X: “Yup. Congress has the power to reverse. Why aren’t they?” / X

Gaza’s “Board Of Peace” Seeks To Reimagine The International Order

The Fake Globalist Resistance Ushering In The Globalist Plan

The Network State Coup And The Engineered Transition To “Tech Zionism”

Which path to Persia? : options for a new American strategy toward Iran : Pollack, Kenneth M. (Kenneth Michael), 1966- : Free Download, Borrow, and Streaming : Internet Archive

U.S. Troops Were Told Iran War Is for “Armageddon,” Return of Jesus

Detachment 201 (Technocracy In Uniform), Trump’s MAGA Divide & Israel’s Iran Regime Change Two-Step

-   Share on X (Opens in new window) X

-   Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky

-   Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook

-   Share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram

-   Share on Mastodon (Opens in new window) Mastodon

-   Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit

-   Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email

-   Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest

-   Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp

Tagged coup, empire, Iran, Israel, Patrick Henningsen, Ryan Cristian, technocracy, Two Party Illusion

"Living is easy with eyes closed, misunderstanding all you see." - John Lennon Driven by a desire for accuracy, chef and independent news stalwart Ryan Cristián has a passion for the Truth. As a recent recipient of the Serena Shim Award For Uncompromising Integrity In Journalism, he understands that Americans want their news to be transparent, devoid of the opulence frothed out by today's corporate media. A cultured and insightful man with a worldly sense, Ryan's unjaded approach offers common sense to the individual racked by the ambiguous news cycle - a vicious and manipulative merry-go-round that keeps trenchant minds at a manageable distance from the truth. Avid writer & editor by day, Truth seeker by night, Ryan's reality defines what it means to be current.

World Foreign Policy Government Military Politics Revolution Top News

A Full-Blown War In Ukraine Pitting Russia Against The US And NATO Creeps Closer

A new draft law adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament and awaiting Petro Poroshenko’s signature threatens to escalate the Ukrainian conflict into a full-blown war, pitting nuclear-armed Russia against the United States and NATO. While much of America’s – and the world’s – attention focused this weekend reflecting on Donald Trump’s first year in the Oval Read More…

-   Share on X (Opens in new window) X

-   Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky

-   Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook

-   Share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram

-   Share on Mastodon (Opens in new window) Mastodon

-   Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit

-   Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email

-   Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest

-   Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp

Top News Conspiracy Foreign Policy Government Politics Social Engineering World

Trump Just Officially Put The US On A Path To War With Iran

Posted on May 8, 2018May 8, 2018 Author Trita Parsi

Trump has taken a functioning arms control deal that prevented an Iranian nuclear bomb and turned it into a crisis that can lead to war. Donald Trump has committed what will go down as one of the greatest acts of self-sabotage in America’s modern history. He has put the United States on a path towards Read More…

-   Share on X (Opens in new window) X

-   Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky

-   Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook

-   Share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram

-   Share on Mastodon (Opens in new window) Mastodon

-   Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit

-   Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email

-   Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest

-   Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp

Clinton Foundation CEO Declared ‘Missing’ By the Internet After Going Public Saying ‘Follow the Money’

Posted on January 1, 2017January 1, 2017 Author The Free Thought Project

Twitter users have started the hashtag #WheresEric in reference to Eric Braverman, the former CEO of the Clinton Foundation, because some think he has been a possible missing person since before the November 2016 U.S. election. Braverman’s last public activity, accessible via the internet, was an October 12 retweet. A common understanding of the events surrounding Braverman’s possible disappearance Read More…

-   Share on X (Opens in new window) X

-   Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky

-   Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook

-   Share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram

-   Share on Mastodon (Opens in new window) Mastodon

-   Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit

-   Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email

-   Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest

-   Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp

As Trump Flounders For Israel’s Agenda Netanyahu Claims Iran Is “America’s War”

What The Hell Is Happening? w/ Charlie Robinson (4/6/26)

4 Replies to “Patrick Henningsen Interview – The Dying American Empire, Lies About Iran & The Coup Within The US”

Same old, same old: politicians buying your vote with campaign promises they never intend to keep.

As always thanks to Ryan and the IMA for continuing to investigate the important subjects of our day. Also credit to Patrick and his 21st century that have been proven to be a legendary resource within the truth movement.

I paused the interview to comment about the America first concept that PH subtly denounced. Yes the term of MAGA and AF have related to fascist, far-right groups like the John Birch Society (that Jon Swinn/ETE has covered intensively) and is clearly hijacked in the 2020’s but historically AFC was a widely popular movement against involvement into WW2, boasting 800,000 members at its peak (the day before Pearl Harbor lol). IMO “America First” as a base or slogan could embody the best ideals of a populist republicanism or nationalism worldwide against the Bank of England and the global oligarchy :

James Peers made an exceptional comment here with historical precedence which Mr Peers included….

my tuppence upon that is on the negative side of the corporatism (oligarchy, Peers) which is practically misunderstood. citizens united (2012) is not only a bastardisation of words it is a transparent corporate take-over . for capital/money to be un-incumbered with the ability to purchase whatever it sees is against popular mobilisation. since the 1920’s, when Edward Bernays wrote the book propaganda, “America first as a wide(ly) popular movement” (Peers) has been infiltrated and eroded due to propaganda that America should enter WWI on the side of the British against whom the 1776 American war of Independence was faught. WWI was two imperial entities fighting for global control and America was propagandized to forget it’s own history and play a part, as dependents of europe and the British in particular. 7000 Americans dead in WWI and 240000 in WWII. what happened to the land of the free, to bravely defend their freedom of action within their im-perfect territory?

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

-   [What The Hell Is Happening w/ Charlie Robinson (10/1/26)]

[What The Hell Is Happening w/ Charlie Robinson (10/1/26)]

What The Hell Is Happening w/ Charlie Robinson (10/1/26)

-   [Irregular: The Israeli Company with Intelligence Ties at the Center of the Rogue AI Incidents]

[Irregular: The Israeli Company with Intelligence Ties at the Center of the Rogue AI Incidents]

Irregular: The Israeli Company with Intelligence Ties at the Center of the Rogue AI Incidents

-   [The Great Reset Of Global Governance and The Old Guard’s Obscene Profiteering On The Way Down]

[The Great Reset Of Global Governance and The Old Guard’s Obscene Profiteering On The Way Down]

The Great Reset Of Global Governance and The Old Guard’s Obscene Profiteering On The Way Down

-   [Trump Rejects Peace (Again), Alleged “Terror Plot” On US Base In UK & MSM Admits Oct 7 Foreknowledge]

[Trump Rejects Peace (Again), Alleged “Terror Plot” On US Base In UK & MSM Admits Oct 7 Foreknowledge]

Trump Rejects Peace (Again), Alleged “Terror Plot” On US Base In UK & MSM Admits Oct 7 Foreknowledge

-   [The Chemotherapy Lie, For-Profit Medical Tyranny & Palantir’s NHS Take Over]

[The Chemotherapy Lie, For-Profit Medical Tyranny & Palantir’s NHS Take Over]

The Chemotherapy Lie, For-Profit Medical Tyranny & Palantir’s NHS Take Over

West Papua: The Genocide That Is Being Ignored by The World

The Podesta Brothers Revealed to be in Portugal the Day of Madeleine McCann's Disappearance

Michael Yeadon Interview - Former Pfizer VP Speaks Out On Dangers Of mRNA Vaccines & COVID Illusion

Parents Catch FBI In Plot To Force Mentally Ill Son To Be A Right Wing Terrorist

The Complete History Of Monsanto, “The World’s Most Evil Corporation”
