Compare & Contrast: Russia’s Long Game in Ukraine vs Trump’s Short Game in Iran

This is an important conversation. We have two potential triggers for a global conflagration—the world’s two most critical geopolitical flashpoints today – Ukraine and Iran. The contrast between these two theaters couldn’t be more stark: between the short-sighted tactics of Washington and its hapless NATO minions—and the long term strategies of Russia and Iran. On both fronts, the seemingly omnipotent military power projection of the US-led axis is now in terminal decline, and western elites seem too arrogant and aloof to admit it. Trump is merely the convenient enabler of this collapse in US power. Not only do their failures threaten to upend the current western-dominated world order, but they are rapidly degrading the US dollar’s position as the world’s reserve currency. It’s a historic paradigm shift. The changes are now irreversible. We explain why.

In this discussion, I spoke at length with Deep Dive host Lt Col Daniel Davis about these two critical theaters of conflict. Watch:

I cannot understand why the leaders in the west are not able to understand the geographical size of both Russian and Iran. How exactly do you go about defeating advanced nations of such large size. Russia has twelve time zones for goodness sake, have these leaders every looked at a world map? Their arrogance is breathtaking.

I do not believe there is an appetite for war among ordinary citizens in the west. There are more pressing domestic issues, as the economies are into collapse mode. I can only foresee internal unrest rather than an rush to join the military for overseas adventures.

The Ukraine war with Russia was the best cure for the Covid scam, but supporting Ukraine by flying flags and fundraising, at least locally where I am in the UK has thankfully fully died. Despite my local Council pushing a Ukrainian Festival Day, there is scant support or interest.

America running out of missiles is great news at least for those who are in the firing line. Hopefully war fatigue will grow, we might find the crashing economies and coming shortages will focus the minds of the citizens of the west on their inadequate leadership.

Peace may come not through strength, but from anger against an unnecessary hardship by the people in the west who have had enough.

This attack was unopposed because of Zelensky's stupid subservience to Trump and the EU and their demands that the entire Ukrainian military be upended because they felt that Russia might collapse

Did Iran Just Break Trump? US Forced to Scale Back, But US-Israeli Aggression Will Continue

Has Trump really TACO’d (Trump Always Chickens Out) to Iran? What appears to be a major cave to Iran may end up being just another tactical pause—for the U.S. and Israel to rearm and reload their dwindling ammunition stockpiles. However, with each repeated cycle of Trump’s faux negotiations, threats of annihilation, followed by a pull-back, and then escalation the U.S. and Israel positions only get worse, as US forces continue to retreat from their numerous military bases in and around the Persian Gulf. Meanwhile, reports suggest that Gulf states are begging Washington not to provoke Iran, but it seems that both the U.S. and Israel may be treating oil monarchies as necessary collateral damage to pave the way for the Greater Israel Project. With so many moving parts to this conflict, it’s going to take an informed and wide geopolitical perspective in order to properly understand what is happening, and what to expect over the horizon.

I spoke with host Danny Haiphong to discuss the latest developments and concerns about what Trump and Israel may do next vis-a-vi Iran. Watch:

NOTE: This interview was recorded on Monday August 3, 2026, with the Danny Haiphong Show.

Iran fought Western supported Iraq aggression 8 solid years patiently, solidly nearly empty handed-remember.

Always great to listen to you great work and brilliant analysis always

Empire Games: What Do the Ruling Elite Really Want?

As we continue our walk along London’s historic River Thames—exploring the Southbank and the fringes of the City of London, the question naturally arises: what are the foundations of former British imperial power, and which aspects still endure today under the US-dominated hegemonic system of global governance and control? An even deeper question still: what is the primary objective of the ruling elite? Is it money, control, or the power to steer civilization? We try and answer that question during this walk. At the end of the day, the current war in Iran is merely a symptom of a procession of world orders we are watching in realtime.

"Processiion" triggered me, Patrick - Charles Fort nailed it (replace "data" in this instance with government systems):

“A procession of the damned: By the damned I mean the excluded. We shall have a procession of data that science has excluded. Battalions of the accursed, captained by pallid data that I have exhumed will march. You'll read them, or they'll march. Some of them livid and some of them fiery and some of them rotten. Some of them are corpses, skeletons, mummies, twitching, tottering, animated by companions that have been damned alive. There are giants that will walk by, though sound asleep. There are things that are theorems and things that are rags. They'll go by, like you could, arm-in-arm with the spirit of anarchy. Here and there will foot little harlots. Many are clowns, but many are of the highest respectability. Some are assassins. There are pale stenches and gaunt superstitions and mere shadows and lively malices, whims and amiabilities, the naive and the pedantic and the bizarre and the grotesque and the sincere and the insincere, the profound, and the puerile. A stab and a laugh and the patiently folded hands of hopeless propriety. The ultra-respectable! But the condemned, anyway.”

Hmm, my comment did not post. Short version: See the big picture here: https://terral.substack.com/p/mrna-super-shedders-zero-day-is-coming

Empirical Truths: Why the Sun is Setting on Anglo-American Imperialism

We continue our walk along Southwest England's famous Coastal Path, this time exploring the historic Mount Edgecumbe Estate in Cornwall. This place is steeped in history, overlooking a key strategic waterway, with a grand manor house which was bombed by the German Luftwaffe during WWII. You can see why this area is so strategically significant for successive monarchs, and later with the former British Empire. All of this leads us to a very frank discussion about the demise of the present day the American Empire, prompted by Iran's audacious move in the Strait of Hormuz. By lo back at history, just as with the its British predecessor, we can get a better understanding why the American Empire’s power is now fading in such dramatic fashion. In the end, the bankers seem to always come out of top. Watch…

The bankers always come out on top, Patrick, because they own everything, including our elected representatives. It seems to me that is a universal truth, at least in the western world anyway.

How many wars are waged that We the People support? How many immigrants do We the People want landing on our shores? The answer to both is zero, yet we get it anyway. Our political class (aka Epstein Class) do what they're told, voters be damned!

Didn't Brown University (?) do a study about 10 years ago that showed that corporate interests dominate the US legislative process such that issues of importance to the ordinary voters represent something like only 1% of law? That tells you everything you need to know.

A most magical walk & talk today Patrick! Amazing British history! And how amazing is open to the public!

From Maker Heights: Empire, Sanctions & A New World Order

We continue our walk along the Southwest England's famous Coastal Path, exploring the historic Maker Heights located on scenic the Rame Peninsula in Cornwall - with settlements dating back to Mesolithic times, but better known for its many Napoleonic War-era fortresses and military barracks. We also consider how this part of British imperial history foreshadows the current collapse of the Anglo-American world order, driven by the US dollar debasement stemming from the US regime's weaponisation of its world reserve currency, and abuse of sanctions against its 'enemies' (and allies), and the new world order which will eventually displace it. Watch:

The free-mind-talk and walkaround continues. In a very friendly and comunicative way, Patrick talk us into his perceptions of the echoes that persisted in the wonderful landscapes of Cornwell, taking his thoughts in another walkaround the empire and empires: the uggly projection into the beautiful world we live on, of power and greed, sociopathy to control societys, psychopathy to do what from an spiritual way to be in the world (as the ancient cultures that still walk the earth) it is only criminal madness. Economical "sanctions" are pure violence excercised upon whole populations, like nuclear dumb bombs, only deployed to inflict havoc and destruction to bend countrys into accept what? to be raped, plundered, slaved. Narco Rubio, Pit Highshit, Orange Boss, Scotch Brissant and Jedi Vans (and the zionist bros and techno-fascists, of course) gang are threats to humanity, war criminals: they only care of them and their profit and the profit of the ones in the shadow, from the Militar with Complex to the Feds, all lost souls who can not enjoy life and beauty and project their resentful minds into the paradise ....

Another good coastal walk, Patrick. That fortification is much bigger than the "Napoleonic" Martello Towers along the Romney Marsh coast, Kent.

Going to Iran: What I Learned, And What The West Got Wrong

The global consensus is now settling in—even if the penny hasn’t fully dropped yet for the collective West

It’s now clear that Trump is losing the last chance there was for a face-saving exit from Iran. Israel isn’t far behind. After reporting from the Islamic Republic of Iran, I’ve done a number of interviews sharing my observations and thoughts, particularly following the recent state funeral procession of the late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei, and a very noticeable national unity which continues to congeal forming under adversity and external pressure from the United States and Israel. There are many reasons for this, but I believe it is largely down to Iran’s deep history as a civilizational state, distilled into its present day political culture shaped by the religious tenets of Shia Islam and its moral imperative sounding through the call for the liberation of the Palestinian people. In this important discussion, we cut through many of the mainstream media narratives, and reveal what real military deterrence looks like in the 21st century, and how the current conflict will ultimately define the wider contest between the western hegemonic empire led by the United States and Israel, and the vanguard of multipolarism now led by Iran, Russia, and China—leading to a transition in the global order. All this and more.

I joined host Pascal Lotaz from Neutrality Studies for an honest conversation about my first-hand experiences and conclusions about the country which western propaganda and power-politics has deliberately obscured for the last half century. Watch:

I believe that the shift in differences between the attitudes of Iran and the collective west began around 50 years ago. There is now a belief in the west that Greed and Selfishness are seen as virtues. This attitude has brought about a huge decline in our collective view of humanity.

I cannot otherwise explain how people can remain so closed off from the suffering of the Palestinians. How can we justify the bombing of women and children in refugee camps as acceptable?

Yes, there is a massive powerful propaganda campaign in order to persuade a significant number of people to turn a blind eye. But there must be alongside that, the selfishness that only I matter and what I have to myself is most important.

The Iranians show that sharing what they have, no matter how small, is more than a simple act of kindness. It represents their whole society. We have much to re-learn about caring for others.

I sincerely hope that Avarice from those who are wealthy will eventually be exposed as most lacking in society and they will be shunned as they deserve to be.

Very good. Your post is cross posted here (https://terral.substack.com/cp/210461077) with links to more information to help others see the bigger picture.

"Bigger Picture! US military-dollar-economy hegemony is collapsing: It's the BIGGEST Collapse in FULL-TIME JOBS in 2 Years! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1SoJb66al68 The Biggest Private Mortgage Lender Just Crashed 49%!! 80x Bigger Than Enron: $5.1 Trillion Fraud That Can Collapse Treasuries, Spark Civil War https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oYVL5UUAXig SHOCK: 100+ SuperTankers HIT https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6myrLu7PmdU Trump in collapse mode: https://www.youtube.com/@MeidasTouch/videos"

Focusing in too intently on the US-Israel/Iran-Russia-China-BRICS War can blur the larger picture causing us to see beyond threats that are growing quickly all around us.

Again, the Global Banksters are using Trump-Netanyahu-BRICS (Iran-China-Russia-Etc.) to destroy US global dollar-military-economy as the linchpin to bring down western civilization. Diesel shortages are coming leading to food shortages and rationing and then civil unrest and Mad Max and martial law. Identify threats, create contingencies, and execute your plans before the SHTF...

This week, we continue our walk along the Southwest England's famous Coastal Path, exploring the rustic old world forests of Cornwall, where we talk about journalism today, how to manage life-balance, before passing by a little known but important historical ruin—a royal grotto. It’s an old structure which tells a compelling old story which echos clear into today’s world. It also holds the keys to understanding watershed moments in history, like the Abolition of Slavery by Great Britain and what this reflects about how Ruling Elite will do to maintain their grip on power. Watch…

How Iran is Breaking the Back of US Empire

The current crisis of the US shortage of ammunition and interceptor missiles did not begin with its war waged against Iran over these last 6 months. In reality, this terminal process began in February 2022 with NATO’s proxy war against Russia in Ukraine—and with each successive wave of Iranian drones and missiles starting with its operation True Promise I against Israel in April 2024, and every successive wave after that. None of the so-called military experts in the US dared to speak publicly about this. Instead they all buried their heads in the sand and collected their stock dividends hoping this dearth in supplies would magically fix itself. This has triggered to collapse of US deference and power projection across multiple global theaters. And Trump can’t do anything about it, other than play games, make bombastic claims and idle threats, while desperately rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic of a flailing myopic and aimless American Empire. All this and more.

Yesterday, I spoke at length with Deep Dive host Lt Col Daniel Davis about this and other critical aspects of the US losing its foothold in West Asia, and how this trend is going undermine its illusion of America providing 'security' to its client states in the Pacific. Watch:

Last week Mearsheimer says he sees no connection between Project Ukraine and the war against Iran. That makes him a rodeo clown. From 2018:

The reason the US and EU has poured so much cash into Ukraine was so Israel could arm terrorists for these current wars and genocides. Look how many different countries Ukrainian weapons where showing up. Even the Sicilian Cosa Nostra are buying high tech Ukrainian weapons.

Poroshenko and Robert Mueller created NABU to distribute the billions they knew they were going to steal and would need laundering and to manage the weapons smuggling and kids, drugs and organs ratlines.

Ask Kellogg's daughter, Megan Moobs of R.T. Weatherman Foundation, about the battlefield organ recovery business. She controls USAID funds for 40 NGOs.

then telling their next of kin they were KIA.

"...R.T. Weatherman Foundation, she manages a flow of aid and opaque operations in Ukraine—including the evacuation of US mercenaries and the controversial transfer of children abroad."

Or ask former head of the Jewish World Congress, oligarch Ihor Kolomoisky about the organ biz. He created Azov--and Zelensky too.

Or ask Ericka Kirk about, "...the controversial transfer of children abroad."

Iran & Yemen Reshaping Region, US and Israel Attempt to Strong-arm Saudis

With Iran continuing to inflict severe damage on US bases across West Asia, as well as shutting down the Strait of Hormuz—coupled with Yemen’s Ansar Allah (aka “The Houthis”) controlling the Bad al-Mendab Strait—a new Middle East (West Asia) is beginning to take shape. Couple this with the fact that Israel finds itself in an increasingly weak position – both politically and financially, and we can see how irreversible structural changes are already in motion. How long this process will take is anyone’s guess, but the road ahead still looks as turbulent as ever. The risks of overall escalation and more crippling system-level perturbations has never been higher. Meanwhile, by denying military assistance in Saudi’s time of need against the Yemenis, the US and Israel are clearly strong-arming the Saudis into joining the ill-fated Abraham Accords. Will it work?

I recently spoke with host Danny Haiphong to discusses the latest developmentsin West Asia and beyond. Watch:

NOTE: This interview was recorded on Thursday September 17, 2026.

Thanks for helping us to understand who the Houthi's are and were........following the Arab spring the continuous attacks on Yemen left us confused.....and horrified.

The USA's meddling in the Middle East has been more persistent and convoluted than most of us can understand, given the superficial coverage of most western media. So we heard about hunger, malnutrition and medical need in Yemen, but no one provided us with a detailed analysis of why Saudi Arabia continued to bomb the country......or who the Houthis were, who the official government was...........or any damn thing that made the conflict make sense.

One thing this current American debacle has done: it has brought some clarity to the region....at least for us Canadians. As a result, we are beginning to believe that when it comes to western foreign policy, we in the west are fed a steady diet of BS and outright lies.

Nothing worse then getting old in what you believe is a democracy, only to discover it might be a branch plant of the most evil Empire on earth. But here we are.

This interview was recorded Monday afternoon August 10, 2026.

As of this week, it’s pretty clear that the U.S. has lost any leverage (real or preceived) over Iran, and is now struggling to retain a military foothold in the Middle East. Trump seems to have no answer, as his strategic blunder is compounded by Iran’s new proactive stance in working to evict the U.S. from the Persian Gulf. Iran is moving to consolidate its gains, as the war that was supposed to bring the Iranian government to its knees backfires badly on the U.S. and Israeli war machine on multiple fronts—including Saudi’s self-inflicted debacle with Yemen and Iraq. What will Trump do next?

I talked with host Danny Haiphong about these and other key developments in and around the Strait of Hormuz. Watch:

UPDATE: According to a new report in. Axios, Trump is preparing a massive attack on Iran, as the Pentagon is said to be mobilizing forces in several regional countries for a potential “blitz” attack on Iran, alongside Israel. According to Trump, this will be on a scale larger than strikes already witnessed previously, saying that, “I am considering a massive attack. Bigger than ever before. I am close to making a decision. We are all set for it.” If and when this attack materializes this week remains to be seen, but the war rhetoric has definitely been ramped-up again.

My goodness, Patrick, I had to give you a heart/like to get you off the dreaded "33". Would have anyway of course...another good piece.

It's funny how everyone keeps saying Trump surrounds himself with Yes Men, but fail to see that he himself is just another Yes Man, totally oblivious to who propped him up, and who he actually works for.

Iran Won’t Break: An Inside Look Into Trump’s Foreign Policy Disaster

Can anything stop the train wreck of Trump’s spiraling disastrous second term? The conflict in West Asia is currently spreading to more and more countries in the region, and behind this push appears to be the familiar fingerprints of Washington and its partner in crime, Israel. But this criminal duo cannot do what it’s doing without help from subservient client states and local enforcers. Enter Saudi Arabia, Jordan, UAE, Bahrain, and Kuwait—all acting against their own interests and existential survival in order to serve the almighty US dollar. But what is the true cost of this neocolonial arrangement? The region is now on fire, with the maelstrom expanding by the day, with fighting extending back into Yemen, Jordan, as well as Iraq and even Egypt. How long until the war spills into Europe, and Central Asia? Understanding how we arrived here is crucial to charting a path out of this historic dilemma. All this and more.

I spoke with former British diplomat and host of The Peacemonger podcast, Ian Proud, and offered a fairly harsh critique of U.S. foreign policy and its recent failures — the Iran war, the sabotaged diplomacy, the compounded disasters in Ukraine and Gaza, and why the United States is now widely seen by its international peers as agreement-incapable. Finally, we ask: what fate is awaits the American empire over the horizon of history? Watch:

NOTE: This podcast was recorded on Thursday July 30, 2026.

Very good work, Patrick. Your post is cross posted here (https://terral.substack.com/cp/209506041) with comments and links.

"Patrick again appears to have his finger on the WW3 pulse with Trump leading western civilization to disaster. Trump's situation back home appears more dire all the time: https://www.youtube.com/@MeidasTouch/videos BREAKING: TRUMP SUSPENDS MAJOR IRAN ATTACKS https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=llva4KRxEmw Larry Johnson: I Called It Off: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U0XAXR6AWXw Ana provides good info (IMHO): https://www.youtube.com/@TheYoungTurks/videos"

The question concerns what orders the Global Banksters have for Israel-Netanyahu in light of Trump's pause. Iran-Russia-China-BRICS is wise to force the US to consolidate operations inside Israeli borders for a showdown that kills two birds with a single stone. The Middle East stage is being set for a David vs Goliath battle with the stone buried deeply in US-Israel foreheads providing a sign of changing US global dollar-military-economy hegemony for a captive world audience. At some point my hope is that the very good WW3 commentators like Daniel Davis, Doug Macgegor, Larry Johnson, and Patrick Henningsen will realize that the Global Banksters are using Trump-Netanyahu and Iran-Russia-China-BRICS to destroy western civilization was we know it very much on purpose. We are living in a 2012-Deep Impact-Contagion Movie that is real, which explains all the craziness taking place all around us.

It looks like US/Israel have already enlisted a fellow crooked and corrupt zionist named Zelensky to broaden the war for them and open up a new front on the Caspian Sea.

Iran’s Defiance and Western Claims vs Eye Witness Accounts – An Interview About My Experience

How US-Israeli aggressions against Iran have backfired on an epic scale

Here are some deeper insights about Iran following its recent state funeral processions for the late Ayatollah Khamenei, which spanned from Tehran to Najaf and Karbala, and ending in the holy city of Mashhad. We look at how Western media misinterpreted the turnout’s scale and significance, before delving into my views on Iran under Khamenei - highlighting its high literacy, and being the region’s leader in women with STEM grads and PhDs, as well as the country’s drive for self-sufficiency in agriculture, medical, nuclear physics, missiles, and drones. It became pretty clear that the knowledge economy in Iran is why institutions like Sharif University have faced targeting by U.S. and Israeli bombings. One can easily contrast ‘home grown’ Iran with the Gulf monarchies who import all of their labour, expertise and management. It’s been targeted by Israel because Iran is the sole regional state advocating for the liberation Palestinians and Lebanon. We also outline asymmetric warfare, the corridor through Syria and Iraq, and how Iraqi oil revenues held in New York provide the US with leverage through the dollar. All this and more.

Upon my return from Iran, I spoke at length with Deep Dive Perspective host Syed Mohsin Abbas about how the western mischaracterisation of Iran and its people have led to a historic foreign policy disaster. Watch:

NOTE: This interview was recorded on July 27, 2026.

Patrick icymi CloudFlare has 21 century blocked here in NC in the US.

Might want to push your substack hard in your spots as your only funding avenue.

I cannot help but feel a deep sense of shame and loathing at the west leaders who condone and participate in the slaughter of innocent children in the name of war.

There is never a time when this action can be acceptable. Not ever.

Iran has taken the brunt of extreme brutality, from the US and Israel. These actions must never be forgiven or forgotten. Likewise the actions against the Palestinians.

Is This Trump and Israel’s Last Desperate Gambit Against Iran?

America is bankrupt, and yet still trying to manage a three-front war.

This week, we saw Iran retaliate against the latest US aggression in the Strait of Hormuz, with Iranian missiles pummeling US military facilities located in Jordan, as well as the unveiling of new hypersonic missile technology which could threaten US Navy assets in the Gulf of Oman and Indian Ocean. This leaves us asking the fundamental question: does the Trump regime have a real strategy for this seemingly open-ended war against Iran? All of this is happening as the US bond market continues to spiral downwards, and US debt and inflationary pressures are putting the squeeze on Uncle Sam’s etherial Magic Money Tree. What will happen next?

Recently, I had a very interesting conversation with host Danny Haiphong and fellow guests Col. Larry Wilkerson, where we unpacked all this and much more. Watch:

That was a great conversation, I watched it yesterday. I click on anything with your name on it. :)

Consider this: the United States now has diesel fuel reserves for just 25 days, which industry experts have described as "absolutely catastrophic". Twenty-five days. That's less than a month of cushion between normal operations and complete economic paralysis. The refineries that once dotted our coastlines have been converted into expensive real estate or shuttered entirely, and the workers who operated them have been told to "learn to code" or "retrain for the green economy." Meanwhile, the same politicians who champion these policies fly home on private jets burning thousands of gallons of fuel per trip. Their hypocrisy is staggering, but their power to reshape the economy to suit their ideological fantasies is even more alarming. 09/10/2026 // Mike Adams

We continue our exploration of history and present day geopolitics, this time walking amid some of the British Empire's greatest artistic treasures, historical artifacts and symbols of power - either collected, or copied, from around the known world. As luck would have it, whilst exploring Prince Albert and Queen Victoria's epic Cast Court in the V&A Museum in South Kensington, London, I ran into an old friend, Dr Peter Gandy, and together we made our way through some of the incredible scale replicas of various European architectural and sculptural masterpieces from the Classical, Medieval, Renaissance, and Gothic eras, each telling a story about successive Empires, including Trajan's Rome - each of which have since come and gone. Our conversation eventually reached the present-day global financial system which still underpins it all.

A fascinating conversation, with surprises around every turn. All this and more. Watch:

Excellent discussion amid the spoils of empire. St George needs to return to slay the dragon of Zionism in Palestine, the UK, the USA, Germany, etc. Has the job ahead of him.

Have been to V&A but it was late in the day, so enjoyed the walk through and the interesting conversation.

We need to change the system re loans etc., Muslim approach? and small communities and States with their own Banks funded witin hte State - decentralise and make things more inter-dependent within those communities rather the one centralised Nanny State which people rely on to take care of and are not accountable..

St George was from Palestinian blood, he has travelled far. Sydney NSW, Australia has a famous football team (in Australia) with the red and white colours and are called "the Dragons".

The Hard Discussion: What’s Really Driving the Immigration Crisis in Europe?

The following is an important and timely discussion which delves into the actual root causes of the current immigration crisis, a subject that has completely subsumed the political conversation in the UK, Europe, as well as in North America. While conservatives are being herded into increasingly reactionary tribal echo chambers, the political left is also being radicalised into a intransigent woke liberal bloc - all of which serves as a recipe for civil war in the West, which is already being used to justify more wars and killing in the Middle East (West Asia). History has repeatedly demonstrated how Europe has form in this regard. Moreover, the radicalisation of the right has revived old ethno nationalist and neo crusader revanchist beliefs and ideologies, much of which is being funded by American billionaires like Elon Musk, and with full political backing by the Israel Lobby. While ‘white’ Europe rails against what it see as a wave of ‘foreign invaders’, few on the political right seem willing to address the structural realities behind this issue, namely the corporate and liberal social engineering in the West during the post WWII era, leading to the terminal collapse of the North American and European replacement birth rates. Likewise, the far-right appear unable to summon the courage to meaningfully confront their own state and supranational institutions—particularly NATO and the EU, for enacting brutal foreign policies—regime change wars and sanctions - all of which have now been shown to have caused all of the major migrant flows into Europe. Will the political West ever face up to the driving forces behind this growing catastrophe? How can people return to sanity before this wave of acrimony careens even further out of control? Moreover, we also talk about my recent experience on the ground in Iran, and what that means for the inevitable reshaping of the region. These and other crucial questions addressed in this critical conversation.

Recently, I talked with Pluralia Dialogos host Matt Ehret about these and other crucial details surrounding this controversial issue. Watch:

I just posted about a book on immigration. It too has been " hidden. I do not know which nation is censoring my comments or if it is this platform that we are on.

I have had posts with links to videos blocked blocked before but not text only comments.

Trump Begs Iran for Ceasefire, As U.S. Fiddles War Casualty Numbers

Good discussion here about that recent ‘pause’ by US in airstrikes against Iran—following more US bases get pummeled by a barrage of Iranian missiles and drones. Likewise, Saudi ARAMCO oil facilities are currently up flames after Yemen’s Anar Allah (Houthi) forces retaliated against Saudi Arabia’s attack on Yemen last week, as Trump & Co. continue to sow more chaos in a region struggling for stability. Meanwhile, Trump is fiddling with US soldiers killed in the debacle, while Iran states that some 200 US soldiers have been killed, and western mainstream is forced to admit that total casualties (killed and injured) now numbers over 600 persons. We also analyze the real US strategy, as well as predict what will likely happen next. Also, Patrick talks about his recent experiences in the Islamic Republic of Iran and why the Western and Israeli propaganda continues to produce bad policy and undermines any chance of a peace settlement for the region. All this and more.

I talk with host Danny Haiphong to discusses the latest developments in Washington and the Persian Gulf. Watch:

NOTE: At the 1:02:38 mark, Patrick misspoke when he mentioned the slain "14 year-old granddaughter" of the late Iranian Supreme Leader—he meant to say "14 month-old" granddaughter.

Why doesn’t he just ask them to let his parents think he’s the winner? Joking aside, the deaths of young men for the vanity and ambition of politicians and bankers, regardless of which side they are on, is an obscenity.

Patrick Henningsen and Brian Berletic are the only two real "Analysts".

US Blackmail Saudi Arabia Into Massive Expansion of Iran War

The war has now expanded. US-Israeli aggression against Iran has spawned new flash points erupting this week: in Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Yemen, Iraq, the Caspian Sea, and Egypt, including two possible false flag events which the western media are actively glossing over right now. Granted, this may spell certain demise for the Saudi economy, but is that part of Washington and Tel Aviv’s plan to weaken the Gulf Arab states as part of the Greater Israel Project? It’s no secret that the Saudi royal family are being held hostage by US banks currently holding their dollar assets. That being said, and putting aside the daily tit-for-tat we see in the headlines, what is the real US and Israeli long-term strategy for this war, and for the region itself? Can we predict what the Trump Administration will do in the coming weeks and months? It seems there is a method to the madness (but madness nonetheless). All this and more

I talked to host Mario Nawfal about the perilous position that Washington’s Gulf monarchy proxies find themselves in now, and possibly routes for de-escalation, as well as stability in the region and the global economy. Watch:

NOTE: In the last 24 hours, a crazed Trump Administration and its Israeli accomplices, have threatened Iran with the harshest bombing campaign to date—targeting the country’s civilian infrastructure in a bombing campaign said to last throughout the weekend. As usual, this was timed with financial markets closing on Friday, and will certainly feature a follow-up move in time for open Monday’s market opening, as Trump’s inner circle and Wall Street cronies attempt to cash-in on oil and stock trades reacting to Trump’s serial bombast. Most certainly, these bombings will affect the U.S. and global economy. Such a joint operation signals Israel’s return to ‘combat operations’ which was given a rest during the the faux “truce” which sort of held during Trump’s MOU ruse. Iran will most certainly respond with devastating force. And the US and Israel know this. All we can say is that things could unravel very quickly now.

Make no mistake about it: the West is doubling-down on its losing wars — and there’s no end in sight. In this discussion, we try and look beyond the usual boiler plate talking points, and instead consider the actions of the US and its NATO allies: against the Palestinians, in Ukraine, as well as against Iran and Yemen. Bear in mind that all of this is taking place amid a backdrop of the failing US dollar world reserve currency system. Rather than reconsider its position, and chart a realistic path forward in an emerging multipolar world, the Western establishment does not appear to want to willingly accept the end to 500 years of global primacy. Thus, the empire will not go quietly. What’s next is anyone’s guess, but the signs are worrying. All this and more.

Last week, I spoke to The Peacemonger host Ian Proud about the precarious state of the international system today. Watch:

NOTE: This interview was recorded on Thursday September 24, 2026.

"The goal is NOT to win these wars. The goal is to use the wars to wash money out of the tax bases of the United States and out of the tax bases of European countries and back into the hands of a transnational security elite. THAT is the goal. To have ENDLESS wars, NOT SUCCESSFUL wars."

A really interesting discussion.......and primarily for me because of the open admission of what European/American history has been, and who we've eradicated, colonized and stolen from in order to come to where we are now.

Living inside a system we can't really call a 'civilizational state', but one that can quite easily look away from genocide.......and coerce most of its citizens into silence.....isn't easy, and there is more resistance on the ground than we might imagine. Because what in the short term can any of us captives do about it??

In addition, the discussion of the western monetary system is appreciated. I still don't completely understand how massive debt can be so good for the economy.....but it does sound as if we're stuck inside a Ponzi Scheme, guaranteed to beggar us eventually. That its sustained by foreign war, that our progressive or left wing 'values' dissolve at our borders, is apparent wherever we look...so thanks Patrick for forcing us to look.

I wish we could think and talk more, about alternative world views and life styles.......how do we get out of the gulag we've built, thinking it was progress???

Why Trump’s ‘Economic D-Day’ on Iran Could Trigger the Demise of the U.S. Dollar

Unpacking Trump’s latest wave of economic warfare against Iran, and why US ‘Economic D-Day’ sanctions against Tehran will not achieve their desired result (regime change). But why does Washington think it will work? Meanwhile, the US economy and dollar are in terminal decline, as Trump’s Master of the Coin, Scott Bessent, revs-up the latest Ponzi scheme to extend the life of the dying greenback. Also, Israel is ploughing ahead with its audacious Greater Israel Project, and rather bizarrely, the Gulf monarchies continue to undermine their own existence—all at the behest of their bankers in New York. We explain why. All this and more.

Recently, I spoke to Dialogue Works host Nima Alkhorshid about these and many other crucial details of this growing financial crisis. Watch:

NOTE: This interview was recorded on Tuesday August 25, 2026.

Having been born in Iran in 1958, to continental parents, I can tell you that Iran and Iranians are not only a wonderful people, filled with integrity and cohesion...so, good luck to anyone who thinks they can take control of this country via annexation.

Patrick's discussion with Nima was excellent........its rare to have the financial situation in the USA tied to the chaos in the Middle East, with so many dots connected in a way that makes sense of all the shuffling of the deck chairs on the Titanic.

The role of Israel is becoming increasingly obvious....sinister and depressing. But Patrick's analysis of the role of Saudi Arabia added to our knowledge.........and explains some of the recent gong show going on between Saudi and its neighbours.

I have to listen twice to get it all clear, but it sure doesn't sound good for America, or her western allies.

Yemen’s Houthis Seize More Territory, As War Turns Against America

This week, Yemen’s Ansar Allah forces aka “The Houthis”, have gained control of yet another key Yemeni port city—this time in Mocha. This major offensive comes amid overall escalation of hostilities across the region, with the Houthis and Saudi Arabia trading blows, as well as military excanges between Iran the US again. Yemen’s Saudi/US-backed puppet government and its oddly titled the “National Resistance Forces” continue to lose ground in Yemen, and who we’re told supposedly withdrew in order “to arrange their ranks, or for a military reason, or due to their inability to withstand the intense military formations”. In reality, these aren’t real soldiers, and Washington and Riyadh’s proxy war in Yemen continues to fail forward. When Saudi Crowned Prince MBS called Trump to beg for help on the battlefield, it was met with ambivalence from the White House. What happens next? All this more.

Earlier this week, I spoke with Deep Dive host Lt Col Daniel Davis about the precarious situation in the Bab al-Mandab Strait. Watch:

Hi Patrick: Excellent work, brother. Your post-interview is cross posted here (https://terral.substack.com/cp/215517998) with commentary and links to more information.

"The Global Bankster Cartel is ready to choke the global oil and food supplies and is hanging the Saudis out to dry. Patrick is very familiar with the region and provides excellent commentary. Seyed M. Marandi: Houthis Expanding Fast & Iran Set to Escalate Big https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bsGNppMquu4 - Ukraine, Russia, Iran, Saudi Arabia & U.S. - Who Loses Most in a World Without Diplomacy? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wLZxrpvjQ6k - Nima: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8R001REUwgA"

We are wise to keep an eye on the collapsing bond market and the US dollar: Sean Foo is very good: https://www.youtube.com/@SeanFooGold/videos -

Diesel prices soar, raising the alarm for farmers as harvest approaches https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2mdWID2L7VI

Oil that ii has mass murdered to obtain, like the Great Satan it is, the US Military comes to STEAL, KILL, DESTROY like the Bible says about the Devil!
