Welcome back everybody to Neutrality Studies. Today we are joined by Patrick Henningson, an American journalist,
geopolitical analyst, and founder of the independent news and analyst site
website 21st Century Wire. Patrick, welcome. My pleasure. Great to be with you,
Pascal. Thank you so much for taking the time because you actually were in Iran very
Iran trip before the war
recently, right? um about a week before the war broke out, you came back to the
US/ Europe. Um can you tell us a little bit about why you went there, what you saw, and you actually said having a war
with Iran would be a huge mistake? Uh could you could you tell us what uh how you came up with that assessment?
Yeah, well, thanks, Pascal. Well, let's start with that. Uh I was there a couple of weeks before the bombs dropped. I
left um Iran just about a week just over a week before the uh latest round of
hostilities uh resumed. And my main reason for going there is I knew that there was a small window of opportunity
uh that could have been attacked at any moment. And the US was positioning its naval assets uh in the Arabian Sea, the
Gulf of Oman. And threats were being made by the Trump administration. And they at the same time they were doing
these nuclear negotiations which uh if you know history is any guide last June
that uh they would possibly be used as a cover for a sneak attack again. So and the Iranians understood that. But
they're, you know, obliged to go through the process. Uh, but we all knew and I
knew that um if I I if I if I went later, it might be too late. The airports might be closed. Uh or the
airport won't be there uh full stop. So, and also there's a risk of being stranded there and not being able to um
to leave uh if if a major war started. So, and not only that, Pascal, but I I
realized back in um December and January that uh the the narrative of these
protests that were that supposedly this massacre of 30,000 democratic peaceful
protesters, this was so important because I I realized that from previous
uh wars that this would be used as the moral cause or the moral justification
for the war whether half the population were against it or not in America. That's really important to have that
background moral argument. And they did the same thing with Saddam Hussein. They did the same thing with Mar Gaddafi.
They've done the same thing in Yugoslavia, Syria, whereby especially under Trump, because you have to
remember Pascal that Trump got elected, the swing vote, the independent vote were a lot of anti-war populists,
conservative. This was the part of the MAGA coalition. and you know whether those people were against the war or for
the war and and I I'll include centrist Democrats in there as well anti-war you
know Democrats uh liberals who are against interventions and not just
against Trump but against war but they would still in America you have to understand the psychology here they will
still say I'm against the war but this is a evil regime and it's probably
better that there's regime change the world's a better place if the Ayatollah alham is dead. And they did the same
with Saddam Hussein. This was the British argument that well we regret the war but as Tony Blair said uh the
world's you can't argue the world's uh not a better place without Saddam in it. And so it's really important that
narrative and I needed to know whether that actually happened or not. So I was fortunate enough to get access uh to see
some of the evidence from the police there uh and also to look at the damage that was done by these riers and agent
provocators. Uh they burned Iranian unarmed police. The riot police don't carry weapons. They're like like many
riot police in Europe. They don't they're not armed. They carry shields, billy clubs, and uh helmets. Uh many of
them were burned alive. I counted eight that I saw uh from the evidence. But it
was really uh violent these uh riots. Sorry, just um I I I kind of I didn't of
course there were the riots but when I asked you about what you saw there I I kind of forgot that you went right a
right after the riots and before the war in that in that in in that window that
period of time now. Um so you tried to investigate actually the riots that was
Protests and street evidence
that the primary motivation to go that that and also just to to to see what society was like um to because
there's two things we were told that the country was on the verge of collapse and the people were rising up against the
government and the country was fractured and that all this this massive massacre
took place. So those were two things. So the first thing I I the first thing as I
arrived on the national day, it's like their the equivalent of their independence day and went straight to
the center of Tran and there were two million people out on the streets supporting the government. Well, all
knowing that they could be bombed at any minute because the the threats were already being issued by the United
States. And so I saw that massive support, that massive solidarity for the
government, for the Supreme Leader. And you knew at that point that you know that at least that part of the story was
completely in the western narrative is totally fabricated. And then we had time later to look at you know burned buses,
burned EMS vehicles, uh firemen, nurses killed, hundreds of police were
murdered, a lot of innocent bystanders were killed as well. uh and police were burned alive, had petrol poured on them,
and then set on fire by these so-called peaceful protesters that came on the back of legitimate economic uh protests
that were uh that came in December with the these were the merchant class, the traders and so forth because of
sanctions, because of the collapse in the currency that was engineered from the outside, by the way. Uh and
Scott Bessant actually he boasted about it. He he openly boasted we collapsed the Iranian economy. Haha. He's it's not
even a secret. Yeah. And and that's a we can get back to that discussion later if you want, which is this economic warfare formula
that's that I've studied over the years, but that was carried out exactly the same formula uh is carried out against
Syria is against Venezuela uh against uh Russia not successfully uh but also
against obviously Cuba and some of these other countries, parentally sanctioned North Korea, parentally sanctioned
countries. Same thing happened here. Uh, you know, for for I think 10 euros it
would be equivalent of 1.5 million uh Iranian raale. So you you know just to
go have lunch you need 1 a.5 million uh rail. So I mean you walking around with
a stack of bills like this. Um and I I I saw the same thing happen in Syria. I saw the attempt of this in Lebanon as
well because they did try to engineer a currency crash uh right before CO or
right after CO or right around the COVID period in Lebanon. And uh so it's it's
the same thing happened here. But uh so so anyway, that was a legitimate protest
and then that was quickly co-opted and hijacked by very much by outside forces.
The evidence suggests that I also saw in Syria where during the Arab Spring that
uh they had a way of jinninging up mobs uh and by also distributing drugs. So
this is something I had seen previously in Syria and and known about in Syria and I saw the same thing here. We spoke
to the police about it. There were um accusations along those lines. So I mean
this is a formula and it if you look at the Maidan uh in February 2014 what
happened there is very similar the the same type of operation was they
attempted to do in Thran but not to to no success because the society as I
learned is totally different in Iran and it's very resilient and it's not what people in the west think it is. Hey,
very brief intermission because I was recently banned from YouTube. And although I'm back, this can happen anytime again. So, please consider
subscribing not only here, but to my mailing list on Substack. That's pascalota.supstack.com.
The link's going to be in the description below. And now, back to the video. How how does that formula work?
Riot playbook and covert tactics
Um because, okay, I I see how you can from from the outside create some form
of social crisis. I mean with the Maidan it was it was wretched up uh well
allegations of of uh um corruption and mismanagement and of course things are
not going well right if a country is under under a lot of stress especially if the United States and Europe put
their mind to it to put it under stress then yes things won't go well but then in order to get from just people going
to the streets organizing a protest is actually a difficult thing right because you need to get the word out you need to
organize stuff you need to get banners, you need to get you need to have a timing uh uh you you you need people to
carry the banners and and stuff. This all costs money and so on and it's it's organization. It's an organizational
effort. But then on top of that, getting violence to happen. How do you do that?
I mean, with the Maidan, we know that these forces were talking to the ultraright-wing nationalist extremists.
Some call them Nazis. I I like to call them ultra rightwing, but whatever. And then they start shooting. But with Iran,
how did they manage to get the violence in? What's Because I I think in in in
societies in Europe and and the US, we're just not used to to this type of
organizational like uh uh destruction through protests. Well, normally you have outside
provocators, uh key people coming in, people are very skilled, very trained. Uh we saw this in HMS in the early days
of the uh uh Syrian destabilization whereby you would have snipers firing
into the crowd uh hitting both protesters and police or using the crowd
as human shields to fire at police to to get police to fire back. And this was
also done in Maidan and outside evidence suggests and there's peer-reviewed um work. I might have even um interviewed
the author of that uh recent book um about these uh provocators and snipers,
gunmen were brought in to create the fire exchange and then the obvious it's
the image from the media of the police firing back that the west will value the highest in that forming that narrative.
[snorts] Uh and so this has been done many many times. So this isn't something this is like next level color
revolution. So this is what if you want to really uh escalate the color revolution uh you know the the the
revolution of the roses or the orange revolution or whatever if you want to escalate that and make it go violent
there's specific tactics that are deployed and these were definitely deployed. It was like chapter and verse
of other similar uh case studies that we've looked at in other countries. But
you actually you need to you need to fool a lot of people, right? Uh who who you give money to and tell them let's go
and have peaceful protest and in the end you you start shooting them in the back in order to get the blood bath you need,
right? That's part and parcel of it. I suppose it's very sinister. Yeah, that's it'sa you want chaos, you want confusion. And
then the US and Israel tried to capitalize on this by uh making public calls at that time for the people to
rise up and take over their institutions. I mean, imagine Donald Trump telling you to to rise up and take
over the institutions. Netanyahu was doing the same. So, and then we had missions on the Israeli and American
side that our intelligence services were active on the ground. And I probably think the British were as well because
there's nothing going on there that the British wouldn't also be involved in alongside the Americans. Uh, so they
have pedigree in that sense. So, you know, that it's not surprising. But what
the surprise that came was the fact that the Iran was able to re recover and
maintain order of the situation and also intercept uh Starlink terminals that were sent in. They shut down the
internet and that kind of really very quickly quieted it down. And the accusations coming from the west are, oh
look, this dictatorial regime shuts down the internet because they're against free speech. No. Well, they shut down
the internet to stop the organizers that were coordinating with outside forces and we heard uh Germany was a hub of
organization and my guess is that um you know the US bases there Stuttgart and
Ramstein base and there's there's a large NSA uh station there and and so
this could very well be because when they did the green revolution in 2009 the United States was micromanaging that
on English language Twitter at the time And uh they used massive this is before
those big APIs that you can now get off the counter to manage multiple accounts. The US military had already developed
all that so one person could manage 50 accounts and that's how they got they
helped to let's say um accelerate the green revolution online in 2009 in Iran
and that most likely was also being done out of Germany or out of the United States directly at the time. So you know
the these things have been tried and done more than once uh in different countries.
Yeah, definitely. It's just interesting that it keeps working and that it keeps also uh you know that western media
maintains stays online, right? They they're they're they're on the narrative and
they keep following and keep falling for the same stupid uh pretense like time
and time again. And although I must say the European media this time if I compare the the war now with the war
against Iraq um is more critical but still what you just laid out this kind of oh we are against the war but you
have to get rid of the mullas that that that that kept that keeps repeating and in talk shows and and and so on. But do
you have do you have any indication if these because there are there are journalists mainstream journalists on
the ground in West Asia. But the the honest ones like uh um uh like like um
Media alignment and propaganda
what's his name? Uh New York Times bureau chief in uh 20 years ago. Um
oh Chris Hedges. Chris Hedges. Chris Hedges. He always wants to leave, right? they go out and and they become Chris Hedges and and and
uh report honestly about what actually happened. But the others, how do they stay in line? And do you have any any
indication of of how they think about this? Do they believe this stupid narrative or are they willing uh
willingly complicit? Well, the while I was there, it was interesting. There were three main
mainstream journalists that were there at the same time I was there. uh one from the BBC and one from Sky News and
uh Richard Angel and the BBC reporter and then I think Freddy Pleen from CNN
who actually has been doing pretty decent you know objective journalism for CNN is so he's he's one of the better
ones I think but the BBC reporter at the same uh national rally day that I was at
she the BBC put out this report of people chanting death to the death to the regime. And I'm like, where is this
taking place? Because it's definitely not taking place out here. So maybe they found some group of people or they
assembled some situation or I don't know. Um but Richard Angel is is quite a
journeyman. Used to work for NBC. He got caught in a scandal in Syria where they
sort of faked a kidnapping. I don't know if you remember reading about that years ago, but you know, these are sort of
veteran kind of uh let's say information warfare uh veterans um in the
mainstream. So I I don't want to get into his reporting. It's pretty it's pretty amazing. But you know, so they
managed to slide into these situations, these mainstream people, and some of them are, you know, it's just about on
the edge. And I guess Iran can kind of tolerate that to some degree, but I mean I think the patience is wearing thin. Uh
Russia doesn't even entertain some of these people anymore because they're just putting out absolute fabricated
reports sometimes. But they're still allowed, you know, they still allow the BBC correspondent in Moscow to or
Matthew Chance from the CNN to roam around and uh do do the usual usual thing. But I think that people are
getting wise to the reporting because there is a good variety of sources to look at and compare and they just
realize what the mainstream are pushing the, you know, their track record is just so horrendous, especially in a war
situation. Then you start seeing the real propaganda come. Uh when the when the shots start firing and you know what
hits the fan, then you'll just wait and you can see who's really going to go for it and push some of the most egregious
propaganda. And sometimes you see the usual suspects doing that, but this one's different, Pascal. You know, and a
couple of CNN reporters leaked or reported that Trump and the CIA were
arming Iranian Kurds that were over the border in in the in the KRG, Iraqi
Kurdistan, and saying that this is going to be problematic for Trump, and this is like almost preempting.
Clarissa Ward was pushing that out on her personal social media account and she does incredible propaganda in war
zones over the years and I was just like, "Wow, why are they doing this now? This could compromise potentially the uh
covert uh action by the Trump or the CIA to arm these Kurdish proxies and send
them into uh into Iran to wreak havoc and destabilize the region." And so like
is this an is this an anti-Trump thing in the United States? Is this are these journalists that are somehow, you know,
had an epiphany and they're actually doing real journalism? Um it's really difficult. Or is it the change of
ownership at CNN? I don't know. But we we saw I think Natasha Bertrand and
Clarissa Ward put out that story and I was shocked because you know they've always been regime change um queens of
regime change and you know propaganda warriors for for the for the Pentagon essentially over the years and somehow
we saw a break of ranks in parts of the mainstream coverage of this conflict
that I have never seen before in my lifetime. So that's a new that's a new thing.
Is it is it possible that we're seeing here like uh not a conflict of interest but a conflict of uh neocon conscience
of people who do want this war but on the other hand they just can't be moved to completely support Trump because uh
you know they are at heart with the other side of the uni party I think so I think there's probably even
a split at the intelligence level uh we al we've seen the resignations recently
of Joe Kent so there there's There's not a unonymity of thought in the United
States and Washington on this. Definitely maybe within the White House, the inner circle of Trump and the
Republican party, it's pretty much a whip line. But outside of that, even uh
you know, there there's there's some people that are setting themselves up as dissenters on this. Even Chuck Schumer
is like trying to backpedal. the uh the Democratic um minority uh Senate leader
is trying to backpedal and basically saying this this war is unlawful and we should have invoked the War Powers Act
little bit too little too late in my opinion because they could have pushed that before the war. They could have had that vote before the war but Democrats
were sandbagging including Chuck Schumer. Uh but now they're coming out trying to position themselves as, you
know, against Trump's illegal war. And so it's just politics as usual. But um
but no, it's I I think there's definitely dissenting opinions and
people among the ranks. I believe you will see more resignations uh high-profile resignations the more this
this situation drags on. So how are you interpreting the uh the
Plans chaos and US interests
situation? I mean, on the one hand, you could you could argue this is the war the neocons always wanted. On the other
hand, you could you could say that maybe this is plan B or plan C. You know, if you start with plan A being the 12-day
war that kind of didn't work, plan B being the uh the Jan [clears throat] Reed riots that were supposed to get rid
of the regime and didn't work and now we're in plan C. Or or you take the uh the approach of the interpretation of
Brian Berlettic who is like, no, no, no, this has always been the goal. you know, the there's there's no there's no concrete plan. There's just concrete
there's just always push push push break and and and the chaos that we're seeing
is not the unintended consequence. It's not Trump screwing up. It is exactly what was intended for the not just Iran
but the entire region because it destabilizes not only them, it also uh
impedes the further development of China and it it it benefits the United States.
So the entire chaos is actually wanted. How how do you interpret this?
I mean there's different ways uh that you can look at this depending on you know which which way you're leaning. I
mean myself uh I'm American. Um I'm here right now and in America I vote as well.
And so you know I I'm part of the political process uh even though I'm a journalist. Um, so I I I have to, you
know, it you have to ask yourself the question is is what if this is some
grandmaster plan, can someone explain to me what is in America's interest that we
are witnessing that's unfolded in the last 3 weeks? Because I personally cannot see it. you know, e even with the
uh the the neoconservative period, the unipol that unipolar moment
uh in the you know, from the late 1990s post 911 to to the Iraq war. Many people
will look at that and say, well, that was just, you know, what what exactly did the US gain from from Iraq and that
whole decade that the complete tobacco? Yeah, some corporations definitely got rich. uh some people uh Belfford BT uh
Hi Burton all of these corporations rebuilding Iraq the military-industrial complex yeah they all got rich uh
Afghanistan same thing it kept NATO out of area and relevant but you know in the
long term it really damaged uh NATO uh and the United States's efforts there so
if we look at this situation how this has been carried out um you know the US has alienated all of its allies uh it's
now lost such incredible amount of credibility. Um you know you have to understand the the source of US power
post World War II. It's through the international institutions. It's through
the multilateral institutions by by by leveraging their uh relationships the
trust through these institutions. Whether the US was would follow international law or not is beside the
point. We can get into that discussion. U there's there's two tiers of international law. Obviously people who
say that oh international law is dead so just forget about it. That's not true. The the United States and Israel and
Britain might not follow it but the rest of the world does and they have to the only
they demand they demand that that we follow it. So yeah, you're I I'm absolutely with you on that one. Yeah,
you have to. Um and because otherwise it's chaos and who's going to reign supreme in a chaotic environment in the
realist sense that would be the uh the the rogue hegeimons would would so the b
mid-tier and lower tier powers have to bandwagon together and international law that framework is essential because uh
Iran's a perfect example. It's a different society. It's a different they have a different constitution. they
their religious uh the religion and faith is at the absolute core and the
center of their political economy. That's not the same as in the United States. That's not the same as European
countries. So you need an intermediary system or a network that countries can
communicate and do dispute resolution and that is the international system
whether the US has trashed it or not it exists so that different countries can
meet in the middle that there's some common framework diplomatic and etc. So,
and they and and and they will meet, you know, just just to throw that in there. Just because Israel blows up a consulate
in the Iranian consulate in Damascus and and breaches international law hugely, right? And, you know, a basic kind of
very very uh horrible infringement on of the Vienna Convention and so on. That doesn't mean that suddenly Armenia and
Aarjan are going to blow up their their consulates around the world. I mean, Japan doesn't do it to China. China
doesn't do it to uh Portugal and so on. It's like [laughter] no no the system remains in place. It's just you've got a
criminal over there who's kind of manages to get away with it. But that doesn't invalidate the system.
Absolutely. It doesn't invalidate diplomatic successes over the years. Even US have brokered some diplomatic
Lobby power and cabinet picks
successes. Like for instance, the JCPOA uh it was just a double insurance policy
to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon that they weren't developing anyway. But it was a d it's a
double layer of insurance. And you know a lot some people will point to uh the
Brookings Institute paper in 2010 which path to Persia and point to a specific
passage in there and say ah look they they they plan to pull the rug on POA
and then blame it on the Iranians. This was the plan all along. Well listen it
took two years to put that deal together. It had guaranurs, Russia, uh the P5+1, all the European countries,
the United States. Okay. A lot of people sunk a lot of political capital into
that deal to make to make it work. And it did what it was intended to do. It
stabilized the situation and it turned the alarm down and it lifted sanctions on Iran and so forth. Now, what you have
to also remember is this doesn't happen in a vacuum. Look at who funds the
Brookings Institution. Some of the biggest Zionist Israeli donors, right?
So, you might think you're reading US policy, but there's something behind it. People don't throw the Israeli lobby put
$600 million into the last election cycle in the Republican side, just
Republican campaigns, including the White House. So 600 million, that's over half a billion, unprecedented sums of
money have been injected into the US political system. Do you think that doesn't have consequences? Do you think
they're doing that just for fun? Do you think they don't want anything in return? I mean it you h you you really
have to be living in complete denial to not to not realize how you know maybe
when the state of Israel was created by the British and it was definitely an
imperial outpost. It was a beach head for uh Anglo empire imperial aspirations
to as part of the great game also you know the control of oil flowing through
the Suez Canal etc. And then the Americans uh took the custodianship over
the state of Israel. I would say after the Suez crisis that's when that phase began. Um and so the the the important
point of this is yes um that that is the tail and not the dog. The US empire is
the dog. Over time, over 50 or 60 years, that tail has grown into something
massive and has metastasized and is threatening the health of the dog at
this point because it's just the level of penetration as John Mir Charman, Steven Walt, and others have proven over
the years and which has now reached uh proportions way beyond what Mir Sharma and Walt had in their 2007 book on the
Israeli lobby. We're at way higher levels now in terms of influence and and
the money that's injected in there. And so what you're seeing, the US imperial policy has something behind it. And that
thing behind it is in the clean break document. It's through it's interwoven into the neoconservative movement and
it's absolutely surrounding this White House. Do you realize that the Israeli
lobby handpicked every cabinet member of the Trump administration that touches
national security or foreign policy? That's what 600 million buys you. And
policy equals people equal policy in American politics. So, you can't just
brush that aside and say that that's nothing. And I I'll give you proof for that, Pascal, because um and I I
[clears throat] haven't written extensively on this, but I've spoken about it. And if you look at the history of US cabinets, normally a president
will select out of the diplomatic corps, the civil service, academia, previous uh
diplomats will be selected for cabinet positions because anybody can can
perform a cabinet duty. Um it doesn't need to be a senator or a congressman.
So why is it that Donald Trump is the first president in history that would raid his own party's House seats, raid
his own party's Senate seats, safe seats, like long-term safe seats, career
seats? These are senators and congressmen that would be there till they die, like Nancy Pelosi. And Trump
would pull them out and risk losing that seat. Uh why why are they why would he
do that when anyone could fill those positions? And the reason is, and what we discovered in the last election
cycle, and this is admitted by IPAC, is that they were grooming all of those congressmen and senators from their
first election. They already had established relationships. They they have control over them in a way that
they wouldn't out someone out of academia or civil service. The lobby had had groomed them with campaign
contributions, checks, all sorts of perks from day one. Whether they won or
lost their first election, they're there. And so that's why those were the those were the short lists that were
given to Howard Lutnik and Jared Kushner. Two Israeli pro-Israeli uh
loyalists, especially Kushner, they managed the transition team for Trump's cabinet. And so Mary Matt had a hand as
did the big donors, probably Ronald Lauder and others. And so you're looking at this, this has never happened in US
history for for once. And I'll prove that that's that that's the case is because one of the biggest donors to the
Obama administration in 2008 was Wall Street and City Bank gave the short list
for Obama's cabinet and nearly to a man what city list uh presented as a list
was became Obama's cabinet and that's and that that that was when Larry Summers became the Treasury Secretary
wasn't it 2008 uh that would have been possibly Timothy Gnery
that might have been Tim Gner and Hank Pollson uh as well was and so I I I have
to go back and review Yeah. Yeah. review that. But so so you basically I mean Yeah. I mean
the donor's hand in the short list. Yeah. Makes makes good sense. So that's that that's the so the tail um
has grown out of control and that tail is absolutely wagging this dog. And you
know, there's a hundred different ways you could have uh contained Iran. If if the if the goal was dominance and the US
is is now given up its footprint around the Persian Gulf, it will not be able to
maintain the military dominance and positioning it has previously because of
what it's done, the massive risk, the recklessness that of of this undeclared,
unprovoked war of aggression with with Israel. And I can't see if it's about US
empire. Uh I think they've done themselves more damage abroad and at home as a result of what we've seen. So
I can't see how that's in the master plan of American imperial dominance. I
think this is something else we're looking at here. Yeah, I'm very glad you're making these points because you
know the the argument by Brian Brletic, who by the way I tried to get on my show for a long time but I just can't I just
can't get to him unfortunately. Uh but he I I take that very very seriously
because I think he tries to point out that there is even if there's not a not
a teological kind of uh uh uh approach it's like there is there are a there are
plans there are policy f that spell out. There are people who spell it out and then there are downstream actions that
start matching what what happened back then. So you we do have a stream of kind of of of direction, right? On the other
hand, we lack this kind of uh uh well master planning. Yes. And the the the
nefarious people in the room who then who then who then do all the puppeteering. But we do see that some of
this some of these attempts are are being made right at at the puppeteering and the but but it is a feedback loop
right and it's not the first time that um empires hand over power from the
Brits to the Americans and former terrorist groups which really I mean the
the current government of Israel is just the outgrowth of a couple of terrorist organizations back in the 1920s and 30s
who attacked the Brits. they they blew up British hotels uh in Palestine,
right? And and then they morphed and they were they became useful and they were put into power. And that's also not
the first time we see that. I mean, right now Syria is being run by a former uh by somebody who was once searched as
a terrorist with five or 10 million bounty on his head. Right. Yes. And so this is this is kind of something that
that happens time and again and and and that that then these these these power structures between the tail and the dog
start changing. So, is it is it that one? And at the moment, we're just at um
uh peak tail peak tail powers. Well, yes. Yes. I mean, look, people
want to make this a binary argument. It's got to be one or the other. I think it's both. I think it's uh Israel and
the US is a symbiotic relationship that the US is quite happy for Israel to
pursue its greater Israel ambitions and what its regional uh dominance there. uh
and at the same time uh this is could come at the detriment of US power and
influence in globally and it could mark the end of the US empire in exactly the same way the Suez crisis which was
completely hamfisted uh the the British the French and the Israelis that plot
that was uh later exposed but that was the end of British uh uh dominance and
control and you know over the Middle East and from that point everyone had to go to the United States. So the the US
and the Soviet Union asserted themselves um to in the Suez crisis and that
changed the world order effectively from that point forward to to we're in that
same paradigm now. But this what we're seeing here in Iran with the Persian Gulf. This is now you're in in that
sense. I'm not going to say it's exactly the same, but you have uh China and Russia uh somewhat playing a similar
role at least symbolically in terms of power distribution that the Soviet Union and the Americans played uh versus the
old empire, the old world order which was the British and the French uh in the Suez crisis in 56. So it I'm talking
about power shifts here, not specifically the exact, you know, roles that they played in those. And and Gaml
Abul Nasser uh was definitely not the same as the Iranians, although he was a
revolutionary government that the West did not know how to to manage and the
Americans were scared that he was going to bolt for the Soviets and they were
also terrified of Arab nationalism. uh and so there are some similar themes
there. By the same token, uh the situation in Iran is is largely what
we're seeing now in Iran. Previous iterations are uh basically American
interventions and British interventions that created the current government that created the Islamic Revolution. Because
you have to remember, forget about the coup in 53. Everybody knows that's very more or less straightforward if you're
analyzing it as a as a coup. the overthrow of Muhammad Mosedc uh and the installation of a fake monarch uh despot
the Shaw of Iran. But but what happened at the end of 79 is actually more interesting because at that time under
Jimmy Carter, the Americans uh were terrified that the the Iranians would go
in a communist direction or socialist uh direction and that they would immediately ally with the Soviet Union
and that was just a no-go. So the US preferred uh an Islamic government uh a
they pref a a right-wing let's say conservative right-wing Islamic over a
left-wing. It was a miscalculation by the US on many levels but that was their thinking and they were already backing
uh uh sort of Wahhabi mujahedin next door in Afghanistan which they were also
using for the same reason by the way because of the emergence of very credible and strong left-wing
governments in Afghanistan through the 1970s. So this was the thinking of the US at
the time and it it obviously backfired on them or didn't depending on which way
you want to analyze it but uh but definitely I don't think it was the intended result and I think the reason
is because I don't think Americans and British or Europeans appreciate how deep
this civilization uh in the society and the religious element in Iran. It goes so deep. you're
talking about just on the Islamic side centuries, but beyond that with the Persian uh identification of the people
there, that's a 5,000year-old civilization. But but especially with the Islamic revival of of Shiite
intellectualism of uh this new type of political Islam that that emerged out of
1979 that then spread globally and had a big effect in Pakistan next door as
well. And you know, Americans aren't going to appreciate this. And I'll tell you the reason why, Pascal, is because
Americans uh and Westerners, they they're cynical. They don't think that
uh that a government would say put in their constitution that they must defend the oppressed. They would think, "No,
they're just evil mull because and every government's corrupt. Nobody would would put that at the center of their
constitutional reset or resandat." No, but Iran does. They're the real deal in
that sense. But the West won't accept that. They'll say, "No, no, no. They're just they're just doing that." And what
they're their defense of the Palestinians is is cover for anti-semitism. And it's because they
hate Jews and they want to push Israel into the into the ocean. That's the cynicism of the West. Because we we have
lost connection with some of these deep deep uh uh themes and these deep deep purposes in the West that we project our
cynicism on everybody else. In the same way that we have such low standards for our political leaders now in the west,
we project that same standard for everybody else and it's not true. Other countries have very high bar for what
they will accept as the leader of their country. Russia is a good example, you know. So it that that's one of the
differences and the west will never I don't think they're capable I don't think we're capable in the west of of
grasping some of these concepts anymore. I think previous generations more so and definitely the British understood
probably a lot of these things back when they had a Arab camel corps as they called it in the foreign office but
today in the 21st century I I just don't see it in in any of the words or commentary coming out of the west
Covert influence and sovereignty
you know these are very very good observations that you made and maybe the first one is also about maybe the
connection between 79 and 89 uh Iran and Afghanistan it's like I had a very
interesting talk with David Gibs who uh professor at uh Arizona University um who who pointed out that
the United States um right before the Soviets actually invaded Afghanistan,
they backed actually the communists because they were the ones who held the Bose power in Afghan in Afghanistan and
had the most potential for for upsetting the so the Soviets to the point where the Soviets told the Soviet communists
told Afghan communist, "Tone it down. your revolutionary stuff is getting is getting out of hand and well that's one
thing on the other then of course the involvement of the the the the CIA in 79
and backing I mean the Iranian revolution if you want to dumb it down was like two factions coming together
the the the religious faction and the the young student uh revolutionary rather left faction right and one one
over the other and then massac massacred them as well so there would be there's probably a story to to tell about this
one as well and then of course the uh the war, the manufactured war in which we today know the US sold weapons to
both side Iran and Iraq um and the the um uh and and then later on how this how
this entire spiel continues. It's just the the level and the sophistication
actually of the United States of being able to do these clandestine and covert actions and act and working on the
ground with large sums of money and then actually having influence within these
societies abroad. That one I do think is kind of unmatched and probably unparalleled I would would argue in
history or how do you see that one? I think so. I think the other the other factor that's important and all those
things you said are are key key factors in in this but the other thing is there
if you look at let's compare the Islamic government in Iran. Okay. It's a revolutionary government. It's a dynamic
government. the living government as 47 years still has maintained its vigor
after 47 years as a revolutionary government. Okay. And we look at similar
with the Bolivarian revolution as well. Venezuela particularly, but we put put
Bolivia in that category rec up until recently as well. Uh and also the Ba'ist
system uh between Iraq and Syria. the the the US and the West and Israel had a
very hard time subduing and cracking. It took them decades, many many failed
coups, many many wars, many proxy wars in order to say achieve the result we
saw in Damascus at the end of 2024. It's not easy. Um these are anti-hedgemonic
uh these the the basis of of Bolivarian governments or the basis of Ba'ist
governments or the Iranian revolution Islamic revolution is anti-hgemonic.
It's about it's a government in process that needs to become independent. Um it
put it's it they tend to be conservative. Uh they also tend to be uh
not anti-modern but maybe uh you could say by today's standards Iran is very
anti-woke by by today's western definition. They're extremely bad way of putting it.
They're very anti-woke. They're so they're conservative but also that uh is
is independent sovereign very important. Iranians are fiercely sovereign fiercely. Uh so when they're under
sanctions they went immediately for import replacement. And there was no no hesitation whatsoever. And so so and
also in today's world if you're not energy independent then you have to seed
a certain percentage of your sovereignty. And so Iran is energy
independent. The point of their nuclear program, civilian program was because of
sanctions on oil was because they realized that their oil or their gas could be taken offline in a war and they
needed to hedge uh in order to provide the base load to for the power to run the country. So the that's it wasn't
necessarily to develop nuclear weapons, but that's what the west is is projecting. But now you can see from the
strategy of what Israel and and Trump are doing, threatening to uh destroy
society by hitting their power stations, by taking their energy infrastructure offline, that's the endgame because when
you when you do that, you then can weaken a country to such a degree. Look at Cuba. Cuba is completely energy
import dependent on fuel. And the United States has closed off all of the sort of exit doors or or entrance doors into
Cuba and they're strangling it. Look at Germany as a good example. Germany uh
had nuclear had a nuclear power fleet up until a few years ago and through this
very odd co-opting of the Green Party and the climate movement and at post
Fukushima shut down their nuclear power plants because of safety risks. Now
modern nuclear power plants are relatively safe especially uh some of the newer fleet. So this idea that
Germany could fall by the wayside in the way that Japan did uh after Fukushima is
just not really a credible argument. Plus the fact that Japan is on a fault line uh as well and has you know
tsunamis and things like that, earthquakes, it just so why is that? So now you you didn't know in in 2010 then
the Nordstream pipeline uh came online and that was a direct natural gas uh
supply to Germany from Russia and then you had the magical Nordstream sabotage
and at that point where where is Germany? Well, Germany's uh now forced
to buy its uh LNG from the United States at way over market prices. But not only
that, they're then firing up their coal plants. And guess what? And they have to
pay carbon indulgence taxes for uh for coal. So that's keeping the carbon market buoyant uh in in there. But why
would it it's just national suicide why an industrial powerhouse like Germany would shut down its nuclear plants. Now
look at Iran. Now you can see this is a strategy. I believe the strategy was to take Germany down. The United States
wanted to pull it down a notch. weaken thei weaken the EU uh and and make it to
totally dependent on US energy. And they're attempting they've attempting to do the same thing uh in other countries.
And I believe that uh if the US had its way, it would it would force Iran if
they weren't going to give over their their uh hydrocarbon industries. Um then
they would destroy US would and Israel would destroy them and force them to import import uh energy and import
everything. And that's the that so that is the model of colonial dependency or neoc colonial dependency but but it's
back to what we were saying previously sovereignty energy energy independence gives gives you sovereignty uh and those
countries like Syria Arab nationalist countries revolutionary governments are fiercely sovereign and that's when they
come into clash with other powers like the United States uh like Israel who has
regional domination plans. Israel wants to create a citystate uh of of in the vein of uh
historic city-state empires and have total control over commerce and trade
flows through that part of the world and then demilitarize all of their neighbors and have them completely subservient to
West Jerusalem. Yes. And that's the plan. And they're very open about that. Now, you can see they're getting very
cocky uh Israeli uh high level officials. They're bragging about ethnic cleansing. Uh, and look at what they're
doing in Lebanon right now in South Lebanon. I mean, the that that should at
least be as bad or worse. I mean, what Russia did in Ukraine in eastern Ukraine, it's nothing. Uh, and not to
mention Russia was just reacting to the collapse of uh UN Security Council resol resolution 2202,
uh, which was the implementation of the Minkx Accords. That's what they're reacting to, a civil war situation. This
is this is just blatant uh barbarism by Israel and they're doing it in in broad
daylight and nobody is restraining them and the United States is adopting the Israeli doctrines now which is the other
thing that's dangerous Pascal is that we used to have this assumption that
civilian civilians in densely populated areas would not be targeted indiscriminately with with modern
military power. And that is no longer an assumption. It's factored into war games anymore because
after October 7th and the US is now adopting the Daha doctrine of Israel. So
again that merger of the US and Israel in terms of their military doctrines and and that it's kind of it's happening you
know. Yeah. I mean yes yes and no. uh on the no part I would say that uh if you look
at the way the United States was fighting its wars in the past I don't think we can find a moment when when
they seriously constrained over a prolonged time their the bombings of civilians I mean second world war
Germany and Japan Hiroshima Nagasaki they didn't they didn't and Korea they didn't they
don't even try to hit the military installations they go after the uh the city centers right in order to to
achieve goals I would say I would say yeah post post Vietnam Pascal after
Vietnam yeah I would say Vietnam to Dresden um that was a different you know that's
just brutal savagery um and medieval style siege warfare and we had some
level of restraint post Vietnam uh where whereby you know and the US re re u they
retoolled their doctrine to rapid strike forces air power special forces is Donald Rumsfeld's uh doctrine. So the US
predicated all of its sort of you know military interventions based on that
model cruise missiles, standoff munitions. But now uh with Trump uh is
that is that is that the way it's going to be or are we going back to the previous now? I mean the huge this this
this this absolutely huge um test is of course going to be on whether whether
the US Israel and they are they are the same at that point if the if this entity
is going to use uh nuclear weapons because whether Israel uses it or the United States it's going to happen with
the okay of the other one that's that's for sure right so yes if they use nukes then uh again we are
in we we must assume that the US goes from a strategy of trying to defeat the
other one, to anihilate the other one and then and the war of anhilation then uh will will have the forms of uh of
what happened in Gaza because Gaza is an anhilation and extermination uh mission
which which works according to a different logic also because it it obviously doesn't leave any more room
for the uh the target of an elilation to to negotiate right so um
yeah annihilation that's the word that's the key word annihilation but try attempting to an annihilate a
nation of 90 million people seems to me too crazy even for this person in the White House. However, um let me just for
the last couple of minutes we have ask you this question because it it's been bugging me for a couple of days now. Um
Trump posts and market shocks
who do you think Donald Trump's tweets are? Um I realized the other day that
his tweets, his social media posts are relatively long and they do not contain
um uh spelling errors. In his first term, there were tons and tons of spelling errors through his tweets. That
what tells me that he wrote them himself. Now he doesn't or they're being uh at least redacted. Right. Who do you
think the Trump team tweet team is? Um there's definitely um more than one
person and they would definitely have a little committee. I would say that committee is probably very much on the
same wavelength in terms of the thoughts and beliefs and that would include Steven Miller uh and people like this
and in his first term he had different people um putting out tweets and now he has his own platform called True Social
which you know at the moment yeah at the moment you know he's using his social media account in my opinion
just to mess with the markets because you look look at the announcement he did earlier uh on on Monday uh this week, he
said he said that uh yeah, I've got a meeting uh we're we're going to have talks with the Iranians and so forth.
Right away, you saw the the S&P 500 jump to a market cap of two trillion. And
then the Iranians come a couple hours later and deny and say, "We haven't spoken to Trump. What the hell is he talking about?" And the market crashed
back down again. Uh it lost a trillion in market cap. And so if you're smart and you're doing your call options
before the announcement, you can make a lot of money on the surge and you can make money on the dip
afterwards and then it rebounds uh a little bit again afterwards. And so all this talk about retaking the Straits of
Hormuse without a concrete plan, it it makes me think Pascal that he's there was no plan and he's doing this to
either shore up the oil markets to to have a little more value come back in to
prevent the price from spiking too much. Um but there's also the the people are making a lot of money off this in Wall
Street and I would I I think there's insider trading going on. I think it's happening at the White House level and I
think that is probably when this is all said and done, if we survive a as a as a as a human race, we will see uh uh some
horrific uh insider trading using the markets between Trump's uh announcements
and also Poly Market and these betting sites are just insane the stuff that's going on. Uh,
I read the other day somewhere on social media that that uh uh Congress made an exception for themselves when it comes
to to uh um insider trading. Is that true? Can congressmen and senators do inside trading without being uh without
punishment being able to be handed out? I I I think I think they I think they do, but this is a different type of
insider trading uh because it would be at policy level. So, and the and the
executive level because when everyone knows when Trump puts something out on social media, there's going to be a
reaction to it and the market's going to react. And right now, the markets are so tense with especially with regard to oil
price and some of these uh commodities and the energy sector also the the helium uh and the AI, the semiconductor,
all of this stuff is is and the fertilizer big a this is all affected uh with the Straits of Hormuse. So any
announcement by Trump can totally uh create tremors in the market one way or
the other. And if you know in advance what what's happening and what's going to be said, you can ride that wave and
make uh an ungodly sum of money if you if you're able to put the types of bets that uh people at Wall Street
institutions are able to do. And I think this is happening. Oh my god. you know, uh wouldn't it
wouldn't it wouldn't it be even more insulting if in the end it turns out it's not about geostrategy, it's not
about Israel, it's just about gambling uh on on on a global scale.
Um anyhow, um but all of these things obviously come together. Uh it's just it's just difficult to say like which
which factor influences which others. Um but Patrick, that was very very interesting. Thank you very much for the
insights that you shared with us. um people who would want to find your work, where's the best place to go?
The main the main hub is 21st centurywire.com. That's uh my website and media platform. I've been going
since uh 2009. And also uh I'm I'm a co-anchor on the UK column news, which is a a sort of,
you know, really wellestablished UK alternative uh media outlet on Fridays. Uh I'm I'm their anchor there. Plus, I
have a show on Sunday called the Sunday wire, which is kind of a week wrapup of a lot of these uh these stories as well.
But yeah, 21st centurywire.com. You'll find everything there. And I'm on Substack as well,
patrickhennson.substack.com. So, you know, this links, we can drop those links in the description,
whatever. Yeah, if you if you send me the links in an email, then I'll just copy paste and I put them into the description box of
this video below and we will certainly have you back to talk again. Patrick Hennings and thank you very much for your time today.
My pleasure. Great to be with you, Pascal.
English (auto-generated)
￼

