Chapter 1: Introduction to London
[snorts]
And there it is, the British Houses of Parliament.
Once managed the world's most expansive and largest empire,
former member of the EU, junior partner of NATO.
What is Britain up to these days? Well, to answer that question, we're gonna
have to ask what America is up to these days. And that might give you the answer of what Britain is up to.
And see, note the dark, menacing clouds of words. It's very dramatic, but you get dramatic scenes uh here in London.
dramatic British weather. Sometimes usually it's not dramatic. It's just gray, but today we got a little bit of
additional color, a little bit of sunshine poking through. Very different from the previous environments which we've been filming. We're along the
south bank of the temps here. We're going to talk a little bit about Empire today as we go for a little walk. This is a feature that I wasn't aware of.
This is the CO wall. This is the national co memorial. All these hearts represent
actually messages written in their families were invited to write messages to their family members who said to have
died from COVID 19 during the [clears throat] pandemic. Uh I don't really want to get into the debate on
PCR tests and viology and COVID statistics. Of course, a lot of people
lost a lot of family members during that period. How they were lost is another matter altogether, but uh we can debate
that another time. So, we're here and we're going to talk a little bit about geopolitics today as we
go for a little jaunt down the South Bank. You know, it's always a good day if it's not raining in London, but it's
a little bit cold. There is a deep chill that you get on these islands that's different from
chills in other places. I like the brisk freezing temperatures of Moscow in a certain way because it's, you know, the
river the river is frozen. It does what it says on the tin. It's winter. It's cold.
There's snow. People are indoors keeping warm here.
You just never know what the weather's going to be like. like we're in May and you know in some places in America you
probably think that this is uh sort of the winter. That's just how it goes. Who knows? It'll be sunny tomorrow and
everyone will sprint out in their summer gear is usually what people do.
But we're going to talk a little bit about geopolitics.
Chapter 2: Wealth in the metropolis
There's a lot. The thing that strikes you when you come to London, I don't I don't spend much time in this city, not
as much as I used to, but one of the things that strikes you when you come here is the sheer amount of money and
wealth that is concentrated in a megatropolis like London. It it has its own economy.
It's got its own economy, its own economic sort of world. But
the the majority of the money in London is sunk into bricks and mortars into
property and it's divided amongst
two groups. One of which is growing rapidly over the years and the other which has always been there.
Most of the money in this city is concentrated into old money
and foreign money, DFI, direct foreign investment
from all over the world is here. You could call that the colonial dividend. It's a term I'm using a lot.
that is honestly it's given while the British Empire may have folded the British Commonwealth is still a
thing and those relationships over the centuries still exist those connections and somehow
a lot of the money ends up here. So that's a big part of it. And the old money,
well, the crown estates as an example, that doesn't really circulate amongst the rest of the population. It's not
there's no real trickle down theory. But on a certain level, I guess it provides some kind of an economic uh ballast,
if you will, that uh there is quite a lot of capital sunk in here. And uh but
[snorts] anyway, that's that's a discussion for another day. But what's the source of all the a lot of the uh a lot of the wealth is just down the road.
We're walking towards the city of London, the notorious square mile, a city state, a state within a state.
Has its own Lord Mayor has its own police force.
uh the king or the queen before him had to ask permission to enter the city of
London like Washington DC like the Vatican.
Wow. Uber has boats. This is interesting. I didn't know that. Uber boats looking across the river there.
We'll take a look at that. That's uh Yeah, that's interesting. Didn't know that.
So, yeah, Uber taxis on the temps. That white one right there. Maybe we'll take one of those
on another visit to the city. So, where's all the where does all the money
Chapter 3: Geopolitics and commerce
come from? We'll cut to the chase and we'll talk about geopolitics.
A lot of the money comes from the maritime industry.
trading, shipping, commodities, the financialization of the global
economy. That that all happens just up the road here uh in the city of London.
Of course, tourism is still a big pull, although with the economy tightening and Brexit, uh there's been a little bit
of a chilling effect on that side. one of the great dividends of uh of Brexit.
Truly wasn't very good for the economy by anyone's measure, but who cares?
Nobody wants to talk about that. Uh but the ship the shipping industry, why is that why is that important to
understand? Well, that has everything to do with what we're seeing right now in the Persian Gulf.
And I can't help but comment on operation, what is it called? Operation freedom.
This is the uh Trump's blockade. This glorious blockade the US tried to lay down on Iran to prevent any shipping,
trade, commerce, anything coming in and out of uh of Iranian ports. And they
called it Operation Freedom. and it was kind of shortlived after a week. Trump
eems to have tacoed on it. He says it's been a great success, but he's going to put it on hold.
I'll bring it to But like with so many things with this president, you don't he's saying that today and then it could be back on again
on on Monday and then off again on Tuesday.
It's just uh what we're used to, this uh erratic, inconsistent announcements. But just the name
Operation Freedom so tacky. It's just uh the latest sort of title. It's embarrassing.
These fake initiatives by the United States. Who writes this stuff up?
Honestly, it's like uh like it's been written by Trey Parker and uh Matt Stone.
Team America. I can't wait for the next Team America sequel. That's going to be fun.
I think Pete Hex's going to feature pretty prominently in that. It'd be it'd actually be funny if it wasn't so scary
and horrific. Anyway, you got to laugh at these things. Another interesting telltale sign here.
what I'm going to show you right there.
That used to be one of the global headquarters of Shell Oil.
Uh, and it looks like it's in the process of being turned into flats.
So, more luxury flats. That's what London needs, more luxury flats. If you go down to Battery Reach, just in the
other direction towards Victoria, I mean, it's like Dubai.
seeing these massive towers being built, more luxury flats. I don't know who can afford all that, but there's so much
money sunk into property here, but I think there's a little bit of an over supply on the luxury and who knows. Uh
Dubai seems to be drying up and because of the the UAE, the geniuses in uh in
the Emirates decided it' be good to throw their lot in with Israel in the US uh rather than
their own rather than the Arab world or the region. And they're probably going to feel the economic implications of
that. But so who knows maybe people will move back to
all the tax refugees in Dubai will move back to to the UK. Who knows? But huge
Chapter 4: Maritime power and insurance
concentration of wealth and the US
is it's it's interesting. The US is trying to enforce a power of the seas.
And this is a not an unknown geopolitical concept.
This was the basis for the British Empire over the years.
Britain held power of the sea for a very long time. I mean it was challenged first and foremost challenged by the Americans in 1812.
uh but in terms of of global power the sea so yeah that would have been for the you know the Atlantic the eastern seabboard
but besides that the you know the British navy the British Empire it it was massive and it ruled the roose for a
very long time but uh after the second world war that baton
was passed to the United States but the infrastructure this is an important part the infrastructure for global trade,
global shipping was based here uh in London and and also the financing,
maritime financing in the Netherlands just across the English Channel. uh the Dutch very important huge concentration of
money and power in the Netherlands that's a country that has punched above its weight
former kingdom of of Holland but very much a partner with the city of London. So these insurance companies
that's and again another lay another layer of power who ensures global shipping very important who ensures
global shipping and that's down the road in the city as well. So, if I kept walking down this
path, I'd eventually run into the Baltic Exchange somewhere in Canon Street just
up uh a few bridges up past the inner temple. That's another interesting foray into the inner temple.
Uh named after the Knights Templars where all the law firms are, what they call the legal chambers.
uh on these islands. But the insurance company of basically that's
ultimately what sets the price of goods and services that transit on the
on the high seas. And so we saw that come into effect when this when the US and Israel started this war on Iran and
then Iran retaliates and all of a sudden one of the biggest thorough affairs maritime thorough affairs comes to a
grinding halt. We're talking about the Persian Gulf because
these companies in London will no longer issue insurance
or or if if if if you did manage to get insurance, it' be so expensive. It might be prohibitive
prohibitive in terms of what you're trying to ship and the price
[clears throat]
when it lands to market won't be competitive. Therefore, uh you cancel that order, you cancel that shipment.
So, we're getting a a tight tightening of the markets, supply chains, etc. So, but that that's one side of it. That's one side of it.
Insurance is one side of it. It's an important side of it, but you have no idea how much money these companies
make. Insure. insurance of all the of all the great businesses.
It's in in a way it's even better than it's almost even better than fractional reserve banking. Insurance has massive
profit margins and it's a very powerful industry. It's got a very powerful lobby
and over the years they've been able to bouncing between one crisis to the next, bouncing between one natural disaster to
the next, they've been able to lobby governments in order to lift the caps on
the profit margins they've been allowed to have. In other words, the it used to be mandated, I'm talking from the
American the American market, but at one point it was mandated that uh they had to pay on out on claims a certain percentage of their total income.
And so in a way that their their profits were their profits were capped. And so yeah, so that th those caps were lifted.
And if you knew the amount of money these companies have have rad in insurance policies in America, the
biggest one is car insurance and you've got home insurance and you got all sorts of insurance. They got insurance on everything. And uh the amount of money
that these it's a cartel of companies, there's a handful of them. And then they have subsidiaries that have marketing brands, but really you're talking about
probably half a dozen firms uh that managed to somehow pocket, you know, 500 billion last year or a
trillion or something like that. I mean, it's it's it's mind-boggling sums of money. I mean, it's even better than big tech in terms it's better than Google in
terms of margins in some cases. So, they're really running running wild.
But, and if I walked even further down this path and I get to Trinity Square
and then you have another class of insurance firms. And so, who ensures the insurance?
The insurance giants. These are the real oligarchs. You're getting close to the center of the empire here. Uh it's right
up there alongside the central bank even more so.
So who insures the insurers? So these are the reinsurance companies. So reinsurance
rates and liabilities. This also is hugely deterministic in terms of which way the
economy is going. which way markets are going, inflation, prices, all these things.
Chapter 5: The establishment's role
So, and in the in the reinsurance, in the world of reinsurance, you have if you were sitting inside the
boardroom in Trinity Square at a firm like Willis Karun or some one of these
old city institutions and you're sitting around and at lunch, liquid lunch,
they would be talk in the director's boardrooms, they'll be talking about the names.
The names. Who are the names? The names are the reinsur the those who are underwriting the insurance industry.
The names.
So, and and there you're getting very close if not you've arrived in many ways
at the center of power in the establishment in in the British Empire, the former British Empire,
the city of London, and the global economy in many ways. So, it's important to kind of understand
that onion that this is pretty incredible.
But if I had more time, I'd take you on a tour of the city of London. And uh the
symbol the symbolism there uh the architecture, the uh freezes, the pelmets,
the gargoyles, it's all there. The the crest of arms, the dragons. At every
entry point into the city, defending the city, you'll find dragon iconography.
there. But that's uh it's an incredible place. Constantly changing, constantly being remodeled, constantly being
rebuilt, never stops. The building never stops in the city. The square mile, Londinium, that's the original Londinium. It's the
Roman square mile which became ultimately the city of London, a state within the state.
But it's it's it's it so it is in the interests and one you have to ask
yourself the question and Britain's also often it it's
it's called under Tony Blair it was very very fashionable to call the UK uh America's poodle
and while this is certainly true in a political sense uh Britain doesn't project the type of military power that it once did. It's
been relegated to a different role militarily. It specializes in certain types of jobs that it performs for the
US uh le u empire if you will special forces sabotage blowing things
up dropping uh high skill teams behind enemy lines sabotaging things basically
disrupting wrecking uh in the case of Ukraine uh doing everything possible to keep the war
going uh and of course intelligence, ingenuity, all these things. Uh that's
what the British military excels in but also politically Britain excels in
disciplining the United States nudging the United States and it does this has many tools at its disposal uh including
intelligence some real some fake some exaggerated red herrings. This has been used many, many times. Many documented examples of
it. We've reported on it. The Iraq war, yellow cake uranium, uh, chemical weapons in Syria, and the
list goes on. So, uh, Christopher Steel, the Steel Dossier.
So, it's a it's an endless endless story there. So, that's his roles.
But what what is what is the city of London's interest in all that? Well, it has interests as we've just outlined.
It it has a a chunk of the global economy is managed.
US maritime power is in many ways backstopped by the city of London which is behind me now.
So that's it's important to understand that. So they this state, this former empire does have an interest in what goes on and what America does.
Absolutely. Because it represents the interests of all of that money, all of that generational wealth, that oligarchy, the names.
People have great interests in the say the stability, the predictability of markets,
uh global maritime shipping. I can't imagine what Donald Trump has done is a disruptive force to this global economy and it's probably wre a lot of havoc in the markets.
That's for sure. Uh and it's also is it's also a paradigm shift
Chapter 6: The great game strategy
away from I mean the US has uh it's interesting. So you probably heard
of Halford Mckinder and this is the uh world island theory. So this is a British geographer.
Some of you may know about this but he had the theory of and what do you have to understand?
Uh the British Empire also brought forth the intellectual
framework for modern geopolitical analysis. In other words, it was the
first empire, if you will, to conceptualize the world as one unit, as
one sort of the planet, as one unit, this planet we're on, uh, that we forget that we're on that, uh, is, uh, is spinning.
And uh but to conceptualize the the planet as one unit geopolitics
and whoever controlled the world island that would be Europe and Asia whoever had control of the world island controlled
the world but to but it was impossible for Britain to control the world island
i.e. Eurasia that includes the Middle East now called West Asia, East Asia
uh and so forth. So uh South uh South the South Central Asia,
Afghanistan, South Asia, Sri Lanka, India, Bangladesh etc. So who whoever controlled the world
island all of that controls the world or can control the direction of power
projection. So if you can't control it, which Britain couldn't control all the land routes, although it fought many
bloody wars to prevent other countries, other empires like Russia from linking up overland
across Afghanistan for instance and connecting with India.
So disrupting the Silk Road, disrupting
land trade, disrupting land power, setting countries against countries, uh that was also part of the imperial remitt.
So Halford Mckinder that sort of great game uh strategy
uh very important. Now then you had I believe his name was Alfred Mayor Mayan
uh American Admiral power of the seas uh and this is the doctrine that he
articulated and the power of the seas. So
if if one was to prevent overland empire or the silk road or all
these trade routes now that are being planned between Russia via Iraq and Iran, these middle corridors, etc. that
those are all violations of the British uh great game uh domain remitt. So that's why a lot of
these wars are being fought. So these are also American issues now because whoever controls the sea if if you can
prevent Chinese belt and belt and road i.e. new silk road uh land routes and land initiatives for the global economy.
Um and and then you maintain the majority of global trade and commerce on the oceans on the sea
administered by the city of London behind us. uh then effectively you control the global economy or it has to
go through your uh thorough affairs, your ports, your legal framework, your insurance and
commercial uh systems and frameworks. So effectively you can control it.
So it's about disrupting what's happening on land, controlling what's happening on the sea. important choke
points the Suez Canal Egypt uh the Babandub Straits that's Yemen Djibouti
Atraa this is why all these are battleground have always been battleground countries so
Chapter 7: The shifting petrodollar
the Persian Gulf is a massive one but the global economy is changing and
while the Persian Gulf certainly was in the ascendancy for a very long time this past century.
The Gulf States there, the Gulf monarchies were used to backs stop the petro dollar
which was no longer backed by gold after Richard Nixon broke from the gold
standard became then backed by oil and those Gulf states which formed a cartel called OPEC.
That was essentially OPEC's essentially a cartel of countries oil producing
GCC shikdoms and they helped to
kind of that cartel it it may seem like it's for Arab
countries but in a way the ultimate beneficiary of OPEC is the United states
as long as those OPEC countries will buy and sell
goods and services, commodities uh in US dollars, then the US dollar can maintain its
supremacy as the global reserve currency.
So it just kind of mandates that it's going to be large volumes of US dollars that are going to be constantly in
demand. And you can kind of see that breaking down right now.
One of the first straws that breaks the camel's back is the United Arab Emirates. The UAE
have basically announced they're leaving OPEC.
Now, that's a potential nuclear bomb for the US dollar as a global reserve
currency. And it's quite simple what happened because the country like the UAE which is completely in terms of cash
and balance of payments it it relies on the ability to sell its oil and natural
gas and and and byproducts that come from that um to sell that on the market.
But by doing that they accumulate dollars and because they're sold in dollars but Now the UAE is short of dollars.
So they're having to leave OPEC and they're going to be selling their oil in Chinese swan and then maybe exchanging
that for dollars. In other words, they're short on foreign currency. This is a kind of third world developing country problem. Or a country that's
under a punitive sanctions will also have those sort of issues. is like we can't get our hands on foreign currency.
Uh so that's kind of an interesting development and really that's the beginning of an er the
end of an the beginning of an end of an era what we're witnessing there. It's very significant.
Anyway, we're here just to give you guys we're on the embankment right now.
That's the temps. I'm looking towards the city right at the city of London there. You can get sort of a zoom in on the skyline. There's St. Paul's
Cathedral in the middle. And as as we spoke to Dr.
Peter Gandandy the other day in the uh Victorian Albert Museum in that video
that the building of the of St. Paul's Cathedral bankrupted the crown.
So that's a little bit of a story there.
But you can see all these uh massive massive skyline. You have the CLD
Institute there. Somerset House, Customs and Trading. The boats used to rock up right there, offload their goods. That's the customs house right along there.
It's now called Summer Well, it's now Somerset House. So, but uh yeah, Waterlue is behind me from the station.
So that's the story. That's the story. So transition now and a battle to see who
Chapter 8: The civilizational battle
is going to steer the global economy. So whoever's so why is this important?
Well, it's not just about economics. Um there's levels even higher than economics. Then we get into the
civilizational question and this is the whole point of empire.
It's the same thing uh with oligarchy in a country. Um at some point you've got more money than you know what to do
with. So it's not about the money at that point. Yes, it is about the money but it's also then about power. Power and influence. the power and influence
to shape a society, to shape a culture, to shape a civilization.
But to do that, you have to be able to be in control of directing civilization.
So that's that's where the real priority comes with power is what are you going to do with that power? What
what sort of world are you going to construct? What is going to be the direction of culture? Um, and that's
what people who have lots of money and power become obsessed with. And because that's what you do. But what's the point
of having it if you can't use that money and and the power that comes with that to shape your world and to shape value
sets uh and so forth to build a a framework and a structure to maintain your hold over power for the next uh
hundred years rolling on century to century generation to generation creating massive foundations of generational wealth like the Rockefellers.
And that's now that torch has been now passed to the titans of tech creating their own dynasties
uh and and setting themselves up to the ground level of whatever that is technical infrastructure the Bezos
server farms or who knows but they want to be the Rockefellers of the next hundred years the Gateses of the world
the Ellisons of the world and so forth that's their obsession But back to the civilizational question,
does the AngloAmerican Empire and and they are they are still the preeminent
global force for influence, but very rapidly being overtaken by economically anyway by the Chinese.
That's beyond debate at this point, but that's actually happening. So, so who's going to steer
the next hundred years? Because the last h 100red years, the last I'll say 200
years, the leading edge of global culture undoubtedly is angophone.
So, it's the English language. That's that is the foundation that is the basis of everything of law, academia,
literature, education, culture, music, art, modern media, television, Hollywood.
It's all language- based. So imagine if that was to transform and in the next hundred
years the number one driving leading edge of culture of civilizational
direction is Chinese Mandarin Chinese then what that's that is uh that is a major thing.
So that's that that's what's at stake.
So at that level that we were talking about earlier uh that that is the priority that is the priority who will
be leading civilization. This when when when Marco Rubio and all these people that work on behalf of the oligarchy you see them
panicking you know the sheer the sheer terror uh about China Chinese economy and China is our enemy.
ch China means us harm. They say all these things like on a daily basis even though China hasn't really done anything but probably help
provide cheap goods and uh you know a really incredible manufacturing base for
the world. It's the world's workshop and uh China's lifted more people out of poverty than anybody any other government in history. Full stop.
So they haven't really done any harm probably to anybody. Uh but I I couldn't say the same about the United States or
Britain for that matter or the other former European colonial powers. France probably that's the biggest conversation. If we were going to have a
be in our bonnet about any former colonial power still clinging to their colonial possessions, that would be the
French. But uh that's falling apart in central Africa.
But anyway, we digress. Uh the civilizational edge, that's what matters. That's what you're playing for.
Chapter 9: Transitioning to multipolarity
And it's a bit it's a bit of a circular uh feedback loop because you can control the civilizational edge and you can
control the direction of culture and civilization.
And it's it's it's it's you formatted it, whoever's in char, the British, the Americans, the
Anglo-Americans, and you're formatting that. Then you you're you're able to control or create the framework for
wealth and power for your base for the next hundred years and 100 years after that. So in a way,
it's it is in your interest. It's in the interests of high finance and all these institutions that we're talking about.
So they do have a common goal. They do have a a mission. They do have a resison
on debt tray as they call it. So that's what they're playing for at the end of the day. It's
not just about money and power. That's just on the surface. So yes, the city does have interests. the city of London.
You know, it's funny that uh Europeans play chess. They play chess and they're
probably the best chess players in Europe are not actually well, they're in the periphery of Europe, you could say.
It's Russia. Russia is a great chess player and that's how they run their foreign policy. It's also how they run their military affairs.
But and and the Americans are good chess players, although they're more America plays more power checkers. It's more
power checkers. It's brute force. And if they're losing, they'll just tip the board over. They sort of have that
privilege. Uh which they exercise quite often in fact. Um but the British
are master chess players as well. uh little bit perfidious albian I think
they used to call it. Um but China doesn't play chess. China plays a different game. It's called go.
And go is very different than chess.
Go is a very different game. There's a very different philosophy behind the game of go. And this is very much
reflective of Asian Asian philosophy, Asian thinking,
there's also a collective aspect to it.
And in go, you saturate areas of the board.
So even if you can't overpower your opponent, you can't beat them in power checkers.
Maybe you can't beat them in chess.
But in Go, if you're playing Go, depends what game you're playing.
Everyone's playing different games simultaneously against each other.
That's kind of bizarre. But in Go, you just need to prevent your opponent from being able to
move or thwart you.
And to do that, you need to saturate parts of the board gradually. So you're sort of surrounding
your opponent to prevent it from being able to sort of
defeat you. So that's that's how China kind of runs its its great game, if you will. And this is
a source of endless frustration for Western imperialists because
they've been able to exert power and influence over these former colonies for hundreds of years.
If you think about it, European civilization
or European empire has dominated the planet
in one form or another uh for the last if we count Rome
uh and the Greek Empire. I mean, we're talking the better part of 3,000 years, but
European, modern European borders specifically in the modern colonial era,
uh, we're talking a thousand years, basically a millennia, a millennium.
So, they've dominated for millennia, but specifically the last thousand years.
that we're today in 2026 we are witnessing the collapse
the disintegration of a thousand years of dominance.
So for a thousand years the global south have been
there's so much money here in this city it's uh unbelievable it doesn't really trickle down
but the global south for a thousand years have been saying how long how long how long must this go on as
Richard Prior famously said the genius comedian median. How long must this BS go on? How long are we going to get
kicked in the ass? And here it is. We've arrived at that inflection point in history.
And a lot of people are, let's be honest, much much unhappy about it.
Much much unhappy about it. And they will go to any length to sabotage,
disrupt, undermine, thwart, wreck, you name it, to prevent
this changing of the guard of global power politics and transitioning from a well previously
various unipolar hegemonic epochs.
to a bipolar distribution during the Cold War to a unipolar moment after the Berlin Wall
fell with the United States ruling the roost globally and then the transition
to a multipolar world with multiple centers of power
and it's going to be difficult. Let's be uh
Chapter 10: Historical outlook
we'll be honest. It's not it's not going to be easy. It's going to be chaotic.
So, as as uh Antonio Grampshi, the famous uh theorist political theorist,
Italian political theorist as he wrote from the prison in Trin
where Mussolini had him in turned because he was too dangerous.
Uh, the old world is dying.
I I think this is the quote. The old world is dying. A new world is waiting to be born. Now is the time of monsters.
And I think we're seeing those monsters.
I have remarked about this in the past and certain public talks, lectures, and things that I've given at
different conferences and things. But it is an apt and a very precient quote by uh Grahamshy.
Yeah, Grahamshy was a Marxist.
So I just the fact that you should be allowed to quote anybody whether they're a Marxist or Adam Smith, a free
marketist, there's truth in there's truth in everything. If you get
hung up on ideological labels and you disqualify,
clear genius insights and absolute golden nuggets of truth and you shoot the messenger because you
don't like the politics of the messenger or you're going to miss out on a lot of the world's most valuable knowledge.
That's why I don't get hung up on the labels. I just look at the substance.
But uh that is a great quote and it very much describes where we're at. So
this little stroll through the halls of power, it's uh
it's amazing. The accumulation of wealth to build this city over the centuries is uh breathtaking
and uh it is and remains one of the world's super megatropolises and it's because of all that behind it.
So there's a lot the people who built this and their forefathers and their
descendants, they want to maintain the as much of that as possible. So the great game is still very much alive and
well. But that's all we uh we got time for. I'll sort of cross the road here over to the temps.
We can give you a good view here of the London Eye.
This was a giant ferris wheel paid for by British Airways, but uh or
they took it over. I think that thing went bankrupt twice. Anyway, it's still there. You can ride one of those pods
for a princely sum and it's nice and slow. You get a great view of London, but it is deer. That does cost a pretty
penny to go up in that thing. And there's the old county hall next to it, which itself is a pretty incredible
grand building. Uh I think that's like a Marriott hotel now. But it's an incredible
many incredible pieces of architecture here. Yes. And they will they will outlast everybody. Well, the ones that are the older ones will I don't know
about the new ones. Problem with new buildings are these modern buildings there is they tend to look they they get dirty very quickly. It's very expensive
to clean all that glass. So anyway, there's the city. This is the temps. That's London.
We'll we'll try to give you a better we'll try to give you a better uh
a better view that that part of London later next time. But anyway, it's been uh nice hosting you today.
I look forward to coming back exploring some of the history, connecting the history to present day
events and politics. That's actually what interests me the most.
And uh that's what we'll do. Thank you guys for joining. Listen, I know this is I think we said this last time, I'm going to say it again.
This channel has been artificially suppressed by the
lords of speech at uh Alphabet, Google, YouTube for over a decade. So, they have
pushed they have kept us down for over 10 years. And we're breaking out. And
we're breaking out because you guys are liking and subscribing. you're physically pushing this content into people's feeds to be recommended
and for that I appreciate everybody who's participated in that effort. So, thank you very much and uh don't forget
to support our work. We're able to do this the Sunday wire, our incredible investigative articles at 21st centurywire.com.
Uh managing our Substack community as well. We do that with your support.
So, thank you guys for those you stepped up to help us. We got a lot more work to do and we will get on with it. But, uh,
until next time, take care. Patrick Henningson signing out. All the best.
