Chapter 1: Trump's demands on Iran
President Trump is saying this morning that he wants Iran to wave the white flag of surrender and just take advantage of the opportunity he's given them to end the war on submission terms.
The Iranian side is saying, "Yeah, about that. We won, so we're not going to be surrendering anything. Where does that leave us? And where is this war going to
then go?" Uh we have back with us today on the show Patrick Henningson uh who is the host of 21st Century Wire, the
Sunday uh the Sunday wire I think it's called. And of course Patrick Henderson.subsack.com uh and is a guy who's been all over this
region for a long time. Been on the ground in Iran several times. One of the few Westerners that has has a great perspective on this whole war and what's going on in the mentality on the other
side which is kind of important for us to know. Welcome back to the show, Patrick.
It's great to be with you, Daniel. Uh well, listen, let's just uh let's just jump right in here because uh Dre Yinst went on uh on Fox News this morning. He
said he had just gotten off the phone with President Trump and had some rather eyeopening observations to make.
I just got off the phone with President Trump who discussed the situation with Iran as the 60-day memorandum of understanding expires. The president
told Fox News Iran should raise the white flag of surrender. He went [snorts] on to say, "I have no time schedule. I'm not in a hurry." The
president indicating that the US naval blockade is continuing to put new economic pressure on the Iranian regime despite what the Iranians have said
publicly. He said they're good poker players, but they're dying and that the midterms in the United States have nothing to do with the president's thinking.
H we're going to get that midterm not not being a factor in a minute, but I mean let's start with the kind of the big eye opener first. Upon what basis can the president of the United States
after all this time and as a quick cap 40 days of war didn't do anything two months of blockade didn't do anything 13 days of back to war didn't do anything
the 60 days now of theou that didn't do anything I don't even know where we are now so President Trump says look just wave the white flag and this will all
end what do you say if he's going to be uh holding his breath uh until Iran raises the white
flag uh that's not good you better call the uh the doctors uh to come in and just keep an eye on the president cuz it
ain't going to happen. Do you really think Iran after all they've been through with the the fact that they have uh you know conventionally anyway uh
defeated the United States have now exerted pressure over the US and leverage over the US and and really dictated the terms of the uh the last
agreement theou why would why in the world would you raised the white flag after that and being sanctioned for 47
years I mean honestly uh it's delusional but it it really goes to show you how disconnected uh from reality I think
logic and just an understanding of the situation that the president is is and I think that if the president is saying that that means that he's getting that
from his adviserss that's what his advisers are relaying to him uh that you know Iran's on its last legs I mean how many times have we heard this how many
times we heard from American presidents whether it's this one or the last one or the one before that the Russians are on their last legs uh and we just need to
push a little harder and they're about to they're about to throw in the towel.
It just it's never happened. So is this to me is a convenient talking point that does exactly what the president is denying. He's trying to shore up his
position ahead of the midterm elections obviously. Uh so you have that political component of course now that's going to
become more uh desperate I think uh in the US conversation. So, you're going to see a lot more of this uh what I call
Chapter 2: Military and naval realities
sort of fronting uh uh in the run-up to the midterms by the president. But let's look at the facts on the ground. Uh and they're screaming right now that there's a there's a new reality in the region.
Uh and the United States is probably going to be the last one to admit they're going to have to conform uh to the changes that have taken place as a
result of their own uh uh unoured uh actions in starting this war to begin with.
and and you know just look at some of those realities you're talking about here. Uh this is uh as of this was
yesterday. Um the shipping has slowed through the straight of Hormuz after several tankers have been attacked. Five commodity vessels transited the straight
on Saturday with none registered for Sunday. Ship tracking data from Kepler showed versus 31 in the prior weekend.
So it was up a little bit and then now it's back down this past weekend.
Shipping appeared to grind to a near standstill after the UAE said three vessels operated by Abu Dhabi National Oil Company were attacked in transit
last week. The United States said it could maintain a naval blockade ran indefinitely. Some ships may pass through undetected with transponder
turned off but figures are far from the more than 130 days of shifts that happened before that. So if the straight of Hormuz is still closed down and the
Baba Mandab is restricted, it's not closed per se, but it is certainly restricted even with Saudi oil from what it was before. Um, upon what basis then uh should President Trump be confident?
Well, you know, Daniel, I think, and you've probably covered this uh pretty well pre with some of your previous guests in your own analysis, but the
strain this is putting on the United States Navy uh is pretty obvious uh from reports. I mean, they're keeping uh uh
like the the USS Abraham Lincoln, for example, you know, the amount of strain that's being put on the the US is, you
know, their forward deterrence and uh attack capabilities and all of this stuff is all predicated on naval power, namely aircraft carriers because Iran's
decimated all of the US bases. That's the thing that nobody in the US, including the media, want to really shine a spotlight on. Uh, and that would
sort of mean ultimately the immediate resignation of Pete Hegsth for presiding over this epic failure in US history.
But they're pushing that off to the side and doing a sort of misdirection right now. Just think about it, Daniel. You
know, look at the USS Abraham Lincoln as an example. That that particular ship that uh, you know, is being kept out at
sea for over 200 days, fraying at the seams. You even have reports of US sailors uh you know trying to jump ship
uh in some cases. We've all seen those reports. But even then the that ship alone has launched I think 10,000 air sorties.
What in the last 6 months? Is that what we're talking about? 10,000 airortis and still that's not enough. 10,000 air
sorties is not enough to subdue the uh the the Iranians. So, you know, at some point you really have to look at the
military strategy of what's been done here. And huge questions should be coming up from all the military experts
of how the United States could have failed this this horribly uh in their approach to this conflict. Well, uh, you
and I would probably agree that the best course of action to in terms of this conflict would be not to have started it in the first place, but that aside, we have what we have in in front of us.
And, uh, you know, it's kind of obvious that the math is like glaring right now.
So, uh, I I don't know, it's it's it's amazing that, uh, the workarounds that people are coming up with right now to
try to paint this as some sort of a feasible, sustainable situation. Now, one of the things President Trump has cited as the reason why this is work is
Chapter 3: Sanctions and resilience
because we're putting so much pressure on Iran and especially economically that they're just being crushed at home and they're about to collapse. Uh, Secretary
Besset announced uh toward the end of last week that this week there's going to be a new unprecedented scale of uh sanctions that are going to put on that
it's going to really really break Iran down this time. I would I'd like you to comment on something I I did on one of my earlier shows today uh from this past
weekend which I thought was really good by Fared Zakaria and here he's going to be talking about why the Iranian uh economy hasn't been destroyed so far.
I'd like you to comment on this from someone who's actually paid a lot of attention to this on the ground. Is this accurate or is this just painting a rosy
picture on it? It is also worth noting that Iran's economy, as strained as it has been by decades of sanctions and now
the war, has nonetheless been surprisingly resilient. For all the perceptions of Iran as an economic
basket case, for all the real pain inflicted, it is also true that Iran is one of the region's more diversified
functioning industrial economies. Iran borders seven countries and can trade over land. It also has several ports,
some of which have been operational even during the war. Iran exports more than just oil. Protectionist policies and
entrepreneurship have fostered booming industries such as steel, prochemicals, iron, and food products. Iran has
adapted to international sanctions by producing more of what it needs at home, including cars, pharmaceuticals, and
home appliances. These goods are not always internationally competitive, not by a long stretch, but they do cater to
local demand and that helps the country during wartime as well.
So what do you think is is that is that a country teatering on the edge and will this next batch by Scott Bessant push them over?
[snorts]
Uh and again Daniel, you know, this is like identical rhetoric to all the successive threats of new sanctions
packages against Russia since the Ukraine war began. You you remember all the announce No, this is going to be the mother of all sanctions unprecedented.
This is going to be the one to break the back of the Russian economy. The the fact of the matter is u there is no
universe where sanctions have ever worked against a US adversary. They don't they only work against allies
threats of secondary sanctions. How do I know this? Because it's in the academic literature. Okay. And anybody who's
looked at all of the case studies of sanctions can see that you cannot change the behavior of a target nation. uh and
this is all documented chapter and verse in Daniel Dresnner's great academic work which is called the sanctions paradox
which is required reading for people who study international relations and sanctions as one example. So I don't
think uh Scott Besset or anybody else in the Trump administration's actually looked at any of the scientific politically scientific literature on
sanctions. If they did, they would know that this is a dead end. And what it does is exactly what Fared Zakaria of
all people when you have to be told off by s Fared Zakaria on CNN, you're not in a strong position with your argument.
And he's correct. Uh Iran has doubled down on import replacement exactly how Russia did following the sanctions that
came down with the uh after Russia's uh uh um re reuniting with Crimea. I say reuniting because Russia and Crimea used
to be one country before 1953 by the way for those who don't know the history. Um but uh and that create that does create that resilience. The other thing that
Iran has which Fared didn't mention so much is you can't pull off this type of resilience unless you have political
solidarity at home. You have to have the public buying in to the the effort to the mission. uh they really you really
have to have this kind of uh cooperation if you will between the society, the state and they have to buy in on the
policies. Iran has to get buyin from their people just like other countries do and they have it clearly. Um and so
any threats like this do do they really understand? Do people understand, Danny, that when Scott Besset goes on global TV
and brags that he took down the Iranian currency and caused uh uh the the riots in the street as he did that that goes
on heavy rotation on Iranian national broadcasting like this announcement and it goes to the people and then any
remaining opposition that was blaming the government of Iran for mismanaging the economy under sanctions, they they
get washed away. I mean, from a political point of view, I can't imagine the Trump administration doing it any worse. Uh because they're trying to beat
their chest and, you know, get their uh social media hot takes uh and and patting their own sort of CV uh all
these uh people in the cabinet um and the president himself bragging Rubio bragging about this stuff. They're
they're fueling the basically the solidarity within Iran. Do they really understand how that works? So, I mean,
is this just one failure after another, Daniel? I mean, honestly, who is advising the president in the White House on public relations messaging? I I
really I you know one wonders if I mean I know that there are because we have some some uh folks that we we talk to frequently that have
some access into the White House and from a number of different perspectives and they say that there are there are some sane voices in there that are
saying a lot of the same things we are but there are also those on the other side. We're going to see hear from one of them here shortly. Uh but one of well
actually we're going to hear from one right now. President President Trump told Trey Yinx this morning that the the midterms. Yeah, I ain't worried about that. That's not putting a time pressure
Chapter 4: Debating US strategy
on me. I know we're within 90 days now, so it's getting closer, but I'm just not worried about that. Well, uh, one of the guys who has this number on speed dial,
General Jack Keane, seems to think it is.
It's obvious that the administration values the political impact in the midterm elections. Oil and gas prices are a part of that story, and that is
the priority. I've always had the view that if we hammer these guys the way we know we can, and I mean massive
hammering of them, then they're on their knees for sure. And the sooner we do that, we declare victory.
So again, you've been on the ground in Iran recently in this year. I think it's at least twice, right? Two separate trips if I'm not mistaken.
Yeah. And with the 40 days that we've done, the two months of blockade, the 13 days of war that we've done, and
whatever we did during the last 60 days, I don't even know how to characterize that yet. Can we do what Jack says? And you know what? Let's just go and finish
the job, and that will send them to the tank.
So, you got these two schools in America, one, you know, and Democrats are are always favoring sanctions, always because it gets them off the hook
of not looking too hawkish on the military side. Republicans of course are going to favor sanctions and uh you know
more of an aggressive hawkish military approach. So like between the Democrats and the Republicans on this in the current iteration of US politics uh it's
just really sort of a one-way uh monolithic sort of approach to these sort of things. And uh uh Jack Keane, of
course, we can sort of, you know, dismiss a lot of what he says as his record is very poor uh in terms of like
when he's actually ever been right about anything uh since this conflict began. I he's running on a very low record there.
Um but yet he'll still be uh uh asked back and he's on heavy rotation as their main pundit. He's really a surrogate of
the of the White House. He's a media surrogate of the Trump administration.
So his he's going to get his his well positioned wellplaced uh uh you know spots on on Fox just like uh the when
when there's a Democratic administration and Mark Hurtling and all these people will be kind of like surrogates of the Democratic uh White House uh if it's a
Biden administration whatever. So it's the same sort of uh program. But uh but back to the you know if if you look at
the the actual uh results and the record on sanctions and combine that with military this is really important that's
why I'm talking about these two trackcts military aggression military threats and then threats of sanctions and actual sanctions. the what the literature shows
you when you study sanctions is that when you're threatening a country and this is a behavior pattern that is tracked across every case study since
Rhdesia uh I believe in 1966 I think uh and so what it shows is that
if you're threatening a country um they're going to double down and if you're threat so when you impose sanctions they won't change they're not
going to back down they'll they'll double down their own internal internal efforts to avoid or to overcome the sanctions. But it's the military threat,
the threat of violence or force guarantees that they will not comply with with any demands from the attacking
country, i.e. the US. So what they're doing here is reinforcing and reproducing the same results that they
had uh with with Russia, with North Korea, uh with Syria for instance. Um although they eventually collapsed that
country but that took you know over a decade uh in billion hundreds of billions of dollars but uh in this case with Iran they're not going to get the
results. In fact this is reinforcing the Iranian position and it's validating everything the Iranian state has been
saying to its people and to the world uh for forever really but especially uh since hostilities began over the last 18
months. So, I mean, do it. I I honestly I'm just amazed, Daniel. You just beat your head against the wall when you're
watching Washington at work. The masters the masters of disaster at work never fail to uh to impress uh when they're
doing their their stuff or they never fail to depress me as it turns out. So, there's that. Um, one of the other things that Trey said in there
was that at the first part of it we just mentioned a minute ago is that uh, President Trump is asking Iran to wave
the white flag of surrender that they should just lay down their arms or so.
Now, we just showed you the the graphic that the straight horos is still uh, greatly constrained if not completely shut down that the Iranians do still
hold control over that. So, just on that alone, you're not sure why they would want to do that. But then when you listen to what the Iranians are saying, this is from uh the speaker of the
parliament, Galibbah, who is their chief negotiator. Um not only is he not talking about surrendering, he seems to think they've already won.
In an unjust war led by the United States and the Zionist regime, our nation stood and fought bravely with an
open heart and without expecting anything in return.
And I as a servant and as a brother who is familiar with the details of this matter declare with all my heart that we won
this war in both military and political terms in the most literal sense of the word.
Chapter 5: Iran's escalation plans
Now that's interesting that he says that that's that's him speaking. But this is the Wall Street Journal. This came out I think yesterday afternoon. Iran's secret
plan to escalate the war. And as I recall, you have suggested something like this on our show uh some number of
weeks if not months back. What do you make of this and and Galibbof's statement?
Yeah. So Galibbath is is echoing what I I heard and I saw when I was in Iran. Uh
and you know we had a a press conference with the Iranian parliamentary uh head of the chair of the committee for national security and foreign policy
Ibrahim Azizi. And this is what was conveyed to us. And this is what you what I heard on the Iranian media uh while I was there and afterwards was
that they're they have zero expectations I can almost quote him zero expectations that the United States will abide by any
obligations in theou or any other uh written or oral agreement and that they're preparing for a continuation of
the war. In other words, Daniel, their baseline uh was war. And so they used theou knowing that it was a ruse. And
this is what I I said on your show a while back in other podcasts, knowing that it was a ruse. The United States was not sincere. Iran knew this. And
what they did is they used this to buy time to uh give and the US was trying to buy time to get some economic relief uh
with regards to the pressure on oil as an example, but they also needed to buy time to rearm and reload, which is what
we said a while ago. And also it gave Israel uh a little relief as well. And that was a big thing for the United
States. But Iran basically used that opportunity uh to double down on their own deterrence and they also you know
used it to bring the pain later in that uh that that period uh in the last uh last month to bring the pain to the
United States. In other words, as as it says in this Wall Street Journal leaked
[clears throat]
or or or sort intercepted communications, pardon me, is that there were Iran was going to bring the pain and they did uh with what the West were
calling a preemptive strikes. Of course, they weren't preemptive. They were just retaliatory against US bases in Jordan and and Kuwait and other locations and
inflicted heavy damage on the US. So you know what what why that's important Daniel is because you have to remember
how this conflict began. The US used the element of surprise in their initial attacks against Iran using negotiations
as cover for a sneak attack. That was really the only that was the main tactical advantage I think the US had
initially. Uh and and if you look back uh at previous you know the during the 12-day war as well. So but especially in
February um it it it did catch the Iranians by surprise and it did paralyze them for a period of time but they
regrouped and eventually recovered and then started uh retaliating against uh US bases and and Israel and and so
forth. But it it what it did is it took away that that key advantage by by the US. So that's that that's a big thing.
So the US can't use this fake foe negotiations and then use it to engineer stunts in the straight which they have
done multiple times or a sneak attack and then move the goalpost as Trump does because the Iranians are expecting Trump to move the goalpost. They're expecting
uh games and sneak attacks and all sorts of the you know potential diversions uh with regards to what the United States is doing with its blockade or you know
routing shipping along the Omani coastline. They they're expecting all of it. They're preparing for the next wave of war. So is the United States ready
for the next wave of war? Because Iran, you can be sure they are. They're preparing for that. They have what they've they've restored a lot of their
capabilities. They've added new capabilities. They've also uh increased their production rate. We're talking about drones and missiles and also
improved their accuracy. That's what Iran's been doing during the rainy day period. Okay. What's the United States been doing? What have they done to
improve their capabilities or to to execute their objectives? Or have they come up with a strategy even of what the
whole point of this war the endgame is going to be uh anyway and will they succeed? So there's a big difference
when we're looking at the compare and contrast between what the Iranians are doing, how they're showing discipline, uh the the the strides that they've made
in to defend their homeland. All they have to do is just focus on defense and also knocking out US assets and positions in the region. The United States have so much more to consider.
They have to manage their presence and where they can launch and and group and to stage uh uh attacks and provocations
against Iran. Plus, they have to manage the Pacific theater. Plus, they have to manage the European uh their proxy war against Russia and Ukraine. Plus, plus
plus, you know, so Iran has a massive advantage uh in all of this. And it's no surprise that they're breaking the back of the US Empire as we speak.
Chapter 6: US munitions shortages
Yeah, that that's that's such an important point here. Um and I'm gonna in fact, we're going to mention something about the the Indo-Pacific
area and how it's related here. Uh Gary, if you still have handy that graphic you show sometimes from CSIS about the
missile developments, uh if you could pop that up on the screen here, I' I'd like to ask your your question, ask you a question based on your research,
Patrick. Um there when you look at how long it takes to make America to make all of its key missile systems. Yes.
This this right here, this is the timeline. The cost I'm not even as worried about at the moment because we have a lot of money and we can waste it.
But you're talking about the SM3s, SM6s, uh you see 50 and 64 months, the THAAD 53 months. Even the Patriots 42 months.
Some some say it could be as low as 24 months, but whatever. That's still two years. What is your understanding of the
[clears throat]
the speed which with Iran can make their offensive missiles? Because I I have seen some reports that anecdotally said
that whereas it takes us, you know, 24 to 64 months to make some of these missiles, it takes Iran uh weeks to a
few months to make many of their missiles, the ones that have been penetrating our air defense. What do you know of that?
I think yeah, I mean, it's kind of common sense. Um Iran's got the just their existing rolling stock. um they
already have a huge advantage over the US I if all if everything was frozen for the next 12 months or more. So and that
doesn't count production. And I think we both understand that it's much more expensive and timeconuming and requires
a lot more in terms of not just money but resources to to to manufacture sophisticated interceptor or defense uh
ammunitions munitions than it does uh the the types of uh offensive uh missiles that Iran is firing at US bases
and Israel. Um and so it that's that's what the other thing. But I'm so glad you brought up this point, Daniel, because uh what what what people aren't
looking at is the timeline. When did the crisis of production and supply for the US regarding all of these different
types of interceptors and and defense uh missiles? When did this crisis actually begin? Because a lot of people think
that maybe it begun on uh uh February 28th and that that was the inevitable death nail uh that they couldn't sustain
the 40-day war. Or then maybe you go back a little further, Daniel, you'll say uh you know the 12-day war uh in in in June and uh and what that did. You
can go back further even further than that. And if you you have to look at this holistically, this this crisis that
the US is in right now with regards to their stock, this began in uh in reality, this began uh in February 25th,
2022. That's when it began because you have to look at the US supply holistically and globally. And the
Ukraine war has uh began the drag on US uh uh supplies in this in this area. And
then it what what led up to you have to remember what led up to the 12-day war
was Iran's operation true promise 1 2 3 and four when they when the Israelis
attacked the Iranian embassy in Syria way back when everybody remembers this this began that round of hostilities so
when Iran's missile salvos and drone uh surges came over that was the also massive depletion of Patriot missiles
and pack interceptors and thads and all of these things, but the media wasn't talking about it. It was just assumed
that Israel had adequate stock, but behind the scenes, the United States was robbing Peter to pay Paul, as you one would say, by moving stock around,
taking from Ukraine for Israel. Not just that, all of the US bases around the region, which all activate as a
integrated array of a defense umbrella for Israel in the region. and that includes US destroyers and all of these
other naval assets that play a role in that sort of massive umbrella of defense for Israel. Iran uh basically tested
that and started to fatigue that from Operation True Promise one and then two then three then four and the and the the
war that we have now was really the knockout punch and that's now affecting US positions globally um uh like the the
Pacific as an example. So, but but it began in in February 2022. You have to look at all of these different theaters
that the US is managing that it claims it's not directly at war with. You know, you have to ignore all that and just look at the facts. And the math, the
math began to fall apart in February 2022 because the US is believe that it has a military that can w fight and win
a two or a three-front war. Well, we need to revisit that. We need to revisit that. Uh you mentioned a minute ago uh
how that very dynamic is playing out in in the Indo-Pacific here uh with this whole issue of the USS Abraham Lincoln
and all the promise or problems with that. We had to pull a carrier out of Asia which was our last carrier. Right
now, we don't even have one in Asia. And as this Associated Press article says, the administration says that the Pacific is supposed to be the most important for
the Western Hemisphere, said Greg Polling, director of Southeast Asia program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Instead, the US
is doing the exact opposite of its previous expressed goal of pulling out of the Middle East. American allies in
the Pacific are unsettled over the unpredictability of the Republican administration, Poland said, while Beijing is quite happy with the US
distraction with the frustration over US allies and partners. And this this goes exactly to what you just got through saying that our resources have been
dwindling. And you can go back to the 2022 uh or this uh you know the operation I think what you call it true
promise I guess in 2024 etc. the 2025 war this one etc. we just keep weakening everything and now then we're burning
out our naval capacity and having to again rob Peter to pay Paul now in the strategic view here. Um where where is
this going to go and how long can we go like this do you think?
Chapter 7: Geopolitics and protection rackets
Well, [clears throat] you know we just talked right now just now about the you know the military uh the tactical issues in functioning and doing operations.
That's one aspect of this. We've established what's happening there. The other aspect is the political dimension.
You also have to remember regarding the Persian Gulf that the United States have also had to pull resources and stock
away from uh their Gulf allies and that's also left the US bases again uh exposed and more vulnerable as a result
in Qatar in the UAE in in Bahrain, Kuwait, uh the Kingdom of Jordan uh and even the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. So
what that did and this is this is another uh crippling reality for the US because that exposed that they couldn't
even defend and they admitted they're they're they're rationing interceptors to to protect US troops rather than
their Gulf Coast uh host countries. So there that means that what their presence there is not to provide
security for a and they can't provide security for the Gulf allies. They're running a protection racket. Okay, that
that's pretty clear. So, now we go over to the Pacific. Same thing. North uh North and South Korea. What is the
actual US mission there? Well, it's now being exposed as a protection racket.
And guess what? This is not going on deaf ears with the South Koreans. And now there's a there's there's a renewed political push uh in South Korea, in
society, in the body politic to start seriously pursuing a lasting negotiated settlement with North Korea. And guess
what that means for the US presence in the DMZ and all the 20,000 troops and all the gear uh and sort of military hardware and assets and the military
industrial complex that we have in the Pacific. Uh that's that's bad news for that industry. Um, and you know, then
once the once the Korean threat, as it were, is is no longer a priority, where does that leave the US presence in
Japan? Where does that leave the US potential foothold they're trying to get in the Philippines? That they then they now have to honestly come out and say,
well, this is to deter China. But they can't because t China hasn't attacked the US. So the whole facade of US
security or you know providing security is falling apart and you can thank the
Iranians uh and Russia as well but you can thank the Iranians for basically triggering this and so there's the the
facade is is is no longer going to hold in the Pacific and I think that's just an inevitability. Daniel, China's, as
you say, Daniel, China is just going to sit back and watch the United States basically commit um economic and
military and geopolitical suicide uh in the slow death of the the the illusion of of US protection for their quote
allies around the world. It it's just a giant facade and each theater is a different franchise of a a type of a
protection racket, including Europe, by the way. And that penny will ultimately drop hopefully at some point. Although the Europeans are pretty stubborn in in
uh in acknowledging reality as we can see, especially with uh with the state of NATO today, but eventually it's going to happen because the economics don't
add up. It's it's not it's not beneficial for the people that they're hosting.
And and even that headline Gary was just showing you there about oh well Trump's saying yeah well we just have another contract. I mean the contracts now $22
billion number one that money has to be allocated. It will be years before that actually turns into actual tomahawk
missiles. Long after this war is is long concluded uh or long after we have lost it maybe. So, you know that just it just
shows that that makes a headline that Trump made a statement today that turns into a headline today and but it's not
going to turn into any reality for a long time. But it does. I mean maybe this is kind of what you're talking about. kind of part of that racket to where Rathon's going to make a lot of money because of all this stuff.
Exactly. What you know what you just showed there on screen, Daniel, Rathon, we could talk about Boeing. We can talk about all the sort of the major players
in in the US defense array. They're they're look this conversation we're having, Daniel, they're popping champagne corks right now, the depletion
of US stocks that they don't care. Does Boeing care about whether the US has good strategy or tactics or whatever uh
in in in the Persian Gulf or the Pacific? They don't care. They they just want orders, forward orders, and they want to get sort of new business uh
booked for the future and then watch the share prices go up and then the shareholders get their dividend checks and everybody's happy. So we have this
this kind of a contradiction in the US uh political economy whereby you have this really behemoth if you will of a of
a military and quote defense industry uh and then you have that's fighting against the realities on the ground where the the Pentagon itself and the
United States uh politically, diplomatically, militarily are just failing one failure after another and at
some point you know these things should be clashing.
you know, but at the moment they're they're kind of separated. We we're compartmentalized uh with in the US with this conversation. They don't care. So,
there's so much incentive uh to make money. And I think every lawmaker in Washington's probably got a nice little sp uh from, you know, all of these wars
over the last couple of years. Let's not kid ourselves. Uh the index funds, their portfolios, etc. So, and Trump himself,
he he he governs by how, you know, his his happiness index is based on uh the S&P 500. He thinks that's the national
welfare of the national happiness index is how the performance of the of the of the S&P
and that industry is a is a big part of that. And that includes, by the way, big AI and big data. They they are part and
parcel of the military-industrial complex. So, uh, you know, but it's it's not it's it's killing the these
industries are profiting massively and they're doing very well. Everyone who's invested in them is doing well, but they're ultimately uh out in the field
uh they're accelerating the demise of the very empire uh that these companies have been front running the sort of
projection of power for for so many decades. is it's ironic when you step back and look at it, but the process is is is undeniable.
Chapter 8: USS Lincoln morale issues
Well, and and I want to look at at the regression and and the deterioration, maybe a better word in our capacity to
keep this fiction going. I I mentioned that headline there about the the aircraft carrier being sent from the Asia-Pacific into the the theater of
operations here in Iran because of the problems with the USS Abraham Lincoln.
Now, that was obviously in the news, so a lot of people were talking about it.
We had uh Admiral Mullen make a an impromptu visit out to the ship this weekend. Well, over the weekend also, we had former chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, Admiral Mullen, uh who was obviously also in the Navy. They brought him on to ask him a couple of questions about this. The first one I'm going to
show you here. Um he's actually going to admit that there's I in fact I I'd like you to watch this from a different perspective. I'm not sure that he
intends to admit that there's a bigger problem here, but listen to what he says about why these guys have had such a problem with supply.
Historically, we've been able to typically go to a port to take a break, do maintenance, and then come back online. Even back in Vietnam time frame,
we did that. Problem right now is in the AO the places we would do that Bahrain in the theater or in the United Arab Emirates, those are targeted right now.
in fact because of that established a base down in Diego Garcia but even Diego Garcia the Iranians have taken a shot
at. So the safety and security obviously these assets is hugely concerning. So there just isn't any easy place to go in terms of a port visit.
Well I mean that tells you right there that the dramatic change in the nature of warfare. Our whole system is predicated on having all these fixed
bases in the Middle East and fixed naval facilities scattered throughout really the world so that we could have these long deployments that you could go back
to ports, you can do whatever, you can get maintenance, you can get some people off the ship, etc. But now he's admitting not only have we lost the land
bases here, we've also lost access to the naval ships because if you if you have these ships at sea, they can maneuver. It's awfully hard to hit a a moving target from an extended distance.
But if they go into port anywhere in the Middle East, it's now a fixed target and almost anything the Iranians have can hit it. So to forstall that, they don't
go into a port anywhere, not even Diego Garcia, which means 260 some odd days with without a port call here. I mean,
what does that tell you about how vulnerable we are in the current environment globally?
I'm I'm so glad you you played that clip and and brought this up, Daniel, because this this kind of um is it this is a
really key point. This this will be the master's thesis of this conversation. um us pointing this out is so critical
because all of that military posture that you just described which you said was you know predicated on uh the United
States's you know ability to service all of these different major naval and air assets and other resourcing and all
this. It's been underpinned by an assumption. This is the key point. It's been underpinned by the assumption that
no country in their right mind would dare challenge the United States or hit back or or dare to take a swing at the
USA. So based on that, including Iran, nobody knew nobody knew prior to uh uh
February 28th this year, nobody knew if Iran would actually do it, what Iran would actually do. Nobody knew because
they hadn't done it before. But now we know that and the the bogus assumption was and this is really the assumption
that underpins the projection of US power. And so that's why these are undefended US bases very close within
close range of Iranian short-range missiles and drones. I mean, if you think about it, if it was a real uh if
they if they considered Iran to be a genuine military uh uh foe, they wouldn't have, you know, pretty much
undefended US bases so close and so clustered around the Islamic Republic of Iran when in fact that that array of
bases main job is to a protect Israel or b to protect project force and to project a threat to Iran to send a
message to the Iranians, don't you dare hit us because we have this overwhelming force in the region. But at some point, Iran didn't just start making drones and
missiles, Daniel, like last year, you know, they've been doing it for a long time. So, where was the US intelligence
uh brain trust? Where was the US Pentagon? Where was Pete Eggs? He certainly should have troubleshooted
this when he came into office uh at the beginning of the Trump administration being the brilliant strategist that he is as the former Fox News weekend host.
Uh now come uh secretary of war in charge of a $ 1.5 trillion dollar uh military machine. Certainly he and his
experts should have troubleshooted this uh stark reality because I tell you what, Daniel, the Iranians had already
figured it out a long time ago. They were just waiting for not just the opportunity but the point where they were attacked so that they could uh be
in the in the in the right in terms of international law and the laws of war which is very important for a a weaker country to have to seen to abide by the
laws of war. Whereas a superpower or global hedgeimon can given can take and discard international law whenever it
suits them. Uh lower tier countries unfortunately are not they don't they're not afforded that luxury. So Iran had to wait for the opportune time much like
Russia has to be very careful in the chess match that they're playing regarding how how they retaliate uh with the sort of provocations and threats and
attacks that they receive including one just yesterday uh from Ukraine uh in Belgarand. So so ju just think about
this. This is such an important conversation, Daniel, because the US was the empire was was sleepwalking with this delusion that nobody would ever
after Iraq, especially uh the Iraq war, that no one would dare uh poke the United States. No. Uh the mighty US. I mean, if nobody knew, but now they know.
Iran Iran said they were going to. But uh Mama Muhammad Randi said this so many times in February and January beforehand
and you know between those those two wars, the 12-day war, the 40-day war, nobody believed him. Nobody believed that they would close the straight of
Hormuse. I mean, they really didn't. A total delusional uh mindset by the US and all of these experts and the Jack
Kees of the world. I mean, I would love to say Jack Jack would be right about something even that he had just mentioned that was a potential risk, but
no, there were all the bluster, all the bravado. That's all we got. And that's we're still getting it. Yeah.
And you know, I can tell you behind the scenes that there were definitely people that that warned about all of those things in the presence of the of the president. And I guess because of the
presence, these other people, he chose to believe them that it wouldn't happen as opposed to it did. Um, so that's the bit that's another problem that those
people get sidelined. I want to go back to something else Mullen said in that same conversation because this one is got a it's going to exacerbate the
problem to me. First of all, uh I personally just consider this an affront from a military perspective, somebody
who's been deployed before uh on land instead of at sea here. But to try to prove to everybody there's no problem,
they pull out the admiral who's ahead of central command right now. um and the former chairman of the joint chiefs of
staff, Admiral Mullen, to try to tell everybody there's no problem here. And in the background while he's talking, Admiral Mullen, you're going to see uh
Admiral Cooper, who goes to the ship with a bunch of cameras to make sure it captures everyone smiling and shaking hands and everything is fine. Um but is
it I was connected with Admiral Cooper last night who was on the ship yesterday and he told me he had a really good visit.
He said many of these problems were early in the deployment and they were solved but these are morale issues on a ship which you really have to focus on and they have been pressed in combat.
The number of missions, the accomplishments. Cooper talked about how significant they have been in the war itself. My experience is these crews
will do absolutely everything to make sure the mission goes well and they clearly have done that on Lincoln.
Come on man. Does does anybody think that the troops are going to be so stupid that they're going to that the admiral is going to show up and say what you're accomplishing is so important?
They know it's BS. They know we haven't accomplished anything. So, what do you think that's actually going to do to morale on the ship?
You're s you're you're absolutely correct on that point, Daniel. But there's another even worse even worse.
What uh what Mullen and nobody else will say publicly because it's it's verboten totally political suicide is that those
soldiers do you think they don't have access to social media? Do you think they they don't read the news? They don't watch these podcasts. Everybody in
America and everybody in the world knows that the United States got into were dragged into this war. It has nothing to
do with US interests. It's a war for Israel. They're being led by the no, you know, by the nose by Netanyahu, Trump as
well. They all know that. Most of them know that. Most of them aware of that.
That's what's going to kill morale more than anything. It's the It's the why. Why are we doing this? It's the why. The military have to deliver.
Whether it's propagandizing your own soldiers or society, you've got to you've got to be able to justify the why. weapons of mass destruction,
Saddam's uh chemical weapons, whatever it is, you know, the global war on terror, prevent the next 911. Trump's
the canard of we can't allow Iran to have a nuclear weapon. Nobody nobody's buying this uh and much less any of
these uh soldiers or midshipmen uh above uh uh working on any of these um uh aircraft carriers or any of these US deployments. So, they're delusional.
They won't admit there's that that that the war as Klaus uh as Claus von Klauswood said war uh is polit is extension of politics by other means.
The why to that question of why are we doing it is a political question. It's not has nothing to do with US security
defending freedom nothing to do with any of that. It's a war for Israel. Everybody knows it. It's obvious by now.
and they can't until these US officials like this gentleman here can come up and say that publicly and he would be
echoing what every single US serviceman practically understands and knows because they talk they communicate with
each other they they chatter they know they know and that's going to kill that's a morale killer at the end of the
day um and that's what Trump has brought upon the United States with this uh this misadventure this epic historic
misadventure. That's what he has brought upon the US military that he claims to have rebuilt, that he claims to champion. You know, he's fighting, he's
carrying water for Israel and for the Israeli lobby. Ultimately, this has been a disaster for the US, for the US uh military positioning in West Asia.
They've lost it all. This is it's a net net loss for the US, you know, and they won't Trump won't uh acknowledge that.
He's not going to confront that reality.
Not publicly anyway. Like you said, Daniel, he's may may have been confronted with this from his close advisers or, you know, JD Vance or
whoever was trying to whisper re reasonable things into his ears, but he's not going to publicly admit that.
But that needs to happen because the sooner he he's playing halfin, half out, um the more he plays this halfin halfout
game with this conflict, it it's just going to the the losses are going to compound uh o over the next And and
Chapter 9: Pompeo's hawkish rhetoric
speaking of losses, so so we just showed a headline from the Wall Street Journal that that apparently Iran may well be
planning on going back from whatever justification they want to have. They're going to say at some point, all right, we're going to go back into or maybe
they're going to try and provoke the US into starting something again so that they can now go into whatever else they have planned after it next. If you're
talking about the United States, you can say, "I I I wish we could have won or something." But when you're seeing what's going on, because you have the
truth, when you see what's going on on that aircraft carrier, when you see you've had to rob Peter to pay Paul on that, when you see the reality of the
big the expensive weapons that we have, the ones that are supposed to be the elite one are are running dangerously low and that you can't actually use them
even if you had all that you want to actually win a military conflict. So, you would think then we're going to have to come up with some face saving way or
just put lipstick on a pig, whatever, get out because we don't have the option to do anything else. And yet, you have Mike Pompeo who despite everything we
just said is now saying this, [laughter] we don't need to do this alone. We can
have great partners in the Israelis who can assist us there to identify the right organizations to provide the right tools, the right munitions, the right communications capabilities, all of the
things that we have seen done where the United States has armed opposition forces to protect America to do the right thing for our country. So, I hope
that we'll do it. And if you do that along with continued enormous economic pressure and then I think we're going to have to conduct more military effort as
well. I think there are more targets that have to continue to be defeated so we can fly over that country safely. If we do all of those things, and this may
still take a bit, we can get the strategic victory, which will certainly be good for the United States and Israel, be great for the Gulf Arab states, and most importantly, it will
provide notice to the Chinese Communist Party that we are a nation that is prepared to actually win and defeat our adversaries.
What is What is he talking about? That we're going to scare China and he wants to arm the opposition. That was where it just started. He wants to arm the
opposition inside of Iran that's going to overthrow them from the inside and then we'll come back with more pressure from the outside to make America safe.
Is anybody buying that anymore? Uh we already tried uh trafficking weapons to the opposition and it was a total
abysmal failure. uh and whatever was left of the opposition, Trump and Besset and everybody else have basically
eviscerated it uh by basically admitting and saying publicly all the things they've been doing to destroy uh the
Iranian economy. Uh so there's no more what is where is this opposition Mike Pompeo is talking about? Is it are they
planning to uh import them into Iran and then get this done strategic victory?
So, we just said, Daniel, the United States having to practically evacuate 17 longheld bases in the Persian Gulf. Uh,
at what point, how can you rescue a victory from the jaws of defeat in a strategic victory there? No, it's it's a
huge this is a historic loss for the United States. The thing you have to understand about Mike Pompeo, uh, and congratulations for losing the weight
and everything. He looks great. However, he's paid to have his views. Those are views that who's paying Mike Pompeo's
who's paying his grocery bill. Okay, that's he's paid to have and say the things that he's saying, whether it's from the Atlantic Council or whoever's
underwriting him at the moment, you know, paying for his expensive parking space as he waits for, you know, potentially the call to be in the
cabinet of the next administration or whatever. Maybe it's the Israeli lobby or various think tanks in Washington.
But th those aren't he's not saying things I I don't believe he's saying things based on actual rational logic.
He's repeating talking points and his job is to go out there. When you see guys like this in the media, they're there to just reinforce talking points
and they're being paid they're being paid a lot of money to do that. Same with people who are have interests in the defense companies. All the ex
generals including Jack Keane. uh his his his invest what he has invested uh in in his role and on the board or whatever with all of these other firms.
This has been well documented by the way all of these pundits all have uh commercial ties and investment ties to so you know it's not really authentic
what they're saying they're they're speaking on behalf of an interest and their personal interest as well but they're not giving objective analysis. I can tell you that right now.
Yeah. And they're also not giving advice that's going to have anything good to result for the United States of America.
Even though they keep using that tag, good for America. It's the opposite. The evidence is overwhelming. Uh before I let you go here, one one last thing I'd
like to get your view on here. We we mentioned Asia a couple of times here.
Chapter 10: Strategic failures and future
Uh there's there was a curious thing uh yesterday that was announced that Trump directs the secretary hexit to scale
back joint military exercises with South Korea. South North Korea, by the way, complains every time, and I mean, I'm talking about for decades that we have joint exercises with South Korea.
They've always done it. It's just almost a reflexive thing. But for some reason, this time, President Trump in response
to North Korea says, "Back it off." And this is from uh his true social yesterday. He says, "Based on my very
good relationship with Kim Jong-un, I am not happy with the fact that the United States has long ago agreed to
participate in joint military exercises with South Korea. These exercises are not only costly with much of these cost
blah blah blah whatever he goes on. So he tells he goes on to say that he told Hexet to substantially reduce but I mean what the hell you're saying that North
Korea complained and you're not happy with your ally South Korea. What's going on here? So what's go what's going on
here is pretty clear. Okay. because of the missile famine. Uh and that was a big that was a devastating uh story uh
to to come out to the global media that the United States was pulling uh THAAD missile batteries and and equipment and
personnel and whatnot and repositioning that those types of assets into for Israel basically or maybe Zalinsky but let's just say for Israel or into the
West Asia. So that created such a tremor that that was a that was a real moment I think politically in South Korea.
They're re-evaluating as we said earlier in this conversation today. Uh they're re-evaluating what's the purpose the real purpose of the US uh mission there.
Is the US really providing defense or are they running a protection racket? Everybody now now knows this globally.
It's the it's starting to to seep in. So what so and that's because of this abysmal failure of the Iran war of of
Trump being led into this culde-sac of of a disaster by Netanyahu and has caused the global missile famine for the
US and military-industrial complex. So Trump is trying to basically head this off by jumping in and posturing as the
peacemaker. I have such a great relationship with Kim and he's he wants to now position him the the peace process between South Korea and North
Korea is already underway. Trump wants to insert himself so he can take credit for anything positive on that on that
score that might sort of come out of this. And it's kind of an act of desperation by Trump actually. And because it's inevitable what we're
witnessing here. It's it's a result of the United States's catastrophic decision to to to to go into Iran and do
this disaster. And uh and so it this is just to me just political uh last minute
desperate uh consolation prize for Trump really.
Uh and and given the uh missile famine you talked about, I mean, what what do you think is going to happen here in the
next few months in in Iran, if that Wall Street Journal article is is accurate and they're the Iranians are just
looking for any excuse to to go back in and to continue to fight? and we already have a a famine of the missiles that
matter anyway, both offensive and defensive. Could we end up in a situation or are we already like Ukraine right now who basically has nothing?
They they have no interceptor missiles at all and things continue to go through and if Iran steps up into that um are we just going to be just pulverized?
I think I think it's it you know it's already happened. It's it is happening.
Just what just a couple of weeks ago the US and Trump threatened, you know, the biggest strike since World War II, whatever against Iran. I mean, if he if
he really was going to do that or if he had the capability to do it, he probably would have done it. But clearly, he he doesn't have the capability to do that
and obviously wouldn't be able to manage the reaction or the retaliation from Iran. certainly not to defend Israel to
the level that it requires in terms of of missile defense and Patriot Iron Dome and so forth all of the different uh
various uh types of defense in their array. He they're not otherwise it would have happened. It would have happened.
So, these are these are hollow threats and I don't think the United States is going to be positioned to come good on a
I would say a 10-day campaign, 10 to 14 day attack against Iran. They're months away from being able to sustain a twoe
uh campaign against Iran probably 6 months maybe. So, we're we're already into December and January with this.
That's that's what I think. um they might be able to cobble together enough for a week of of attack on attacks on
Iran right after the midterms. And so I think I from the the US can't give up uh
Trump during again Daniel during his term he will not allow himself to be the president in in his legacy in the
historical record on Wikipedia or wherever it exists that he's the guy that's that basically uh uh uh seated
power out of the region for the US power and and handed it to Iran. Trump will do anything to kick that can that
inevitability down the road. So, I think there'll be skirmishes, there'll be threats, there'll be games, constant
games with regards to blockades and then peace talks and but it's not going I don't think it's going to work out well that way, Daniel, because the US really
kind of Iran called their bluff with theou. They're not going to be able to even do that again. That puts the US in an incredible corner even tactically.
Yeah. Um so if that's what President Trump is trying to do to try to avoid that Wikipedia entry or whatever, uh all he's going to
do is guarantee it's going to be in there worse because of the cost to doing besides the walk away plan that we had talked about. He would have been
embarrassed. This is going to be far worse. Uh and we'll have to see how it's going to work out. But uh as always, we're really grateful for you coming on today, especially sharing your on the
ground experience. uh remind people to see that the 21st century wire the Sunday wire uh which you do every Sunday of course uh it's always there people
can go there to find out more on your substack yeah and if you um if you're able to drop the some of those links in the description Daniel people will see that
we just released a Nordstream pipeline breaking story which we broke uh and
it's a new development on the Nordstream story not just that we did a full analysis and uh translation on the
trials in Germany um as well as the uh the Lloyds of London versus Nordstream commercial trial in London, but we have
discovered uh a a vessel that was over the crime scene afterwards and and we tracked it with AIS satellite data.
Nobody else has done this. We've done it and we published the results here at 21st Century Wire and we believe this is
a a serious break uh with this Nordstream story. It's a small detail, but I think we think it's very consequential.
Yeah. Well, there you go. That's some breaking news even right now that you're not going to get anywhere else than 21st Century Wire. So, we'll send people there. We thank you guys. We thank you.
And we will look forward to seeing you all on the next episode of the Daniel Davis Deep Dive.
Don't forget to tell your friends, the ones that love to listen to podcasts.
Get them to add Daniel Davis Deep Dive to their podcast list. They need to know what you know. They can get it to where they already get their podcast. You just got to tell them.
