Chapter 1: Iran-US conflict escalation
Welcome back to the program everyone. As you can see, I'm joined by Patrick Hennington of 21st Century Wire to go over the latest developments. Well,
yesterday it was reported that Iran has in recent days struck a vessel in the street of Hormuz, leaving US military
personnel wounded. The vessel was under contract and had American troops aboard.
They are now being troop uh treated in unidentified Arab countries. Now, uh,
new photos obtained by CBS show the widespread damage that US positions have
taken from Iranian missile and drone attacks. And this is Camp Buring in Kuwait. Uh, this is also Campuring in
Kuwait. And this uh, we also have a lot of I mean a lot of Kuwait pictures. And there's Prince Sultan air base in Saudi
Arabia. Now, this comes as there's an inspector general of the Pentagon. uh they gave a report saying that Iranian
strikes have damaged or destroyed hundreds of buildings at bases across eight countries. Now this also includes
uh and this is interesting Patrick the way they frame it 6,000 Iranian drones and 1500 ballistic missiles were they say shot down despite the fact that the
images show otherwise. Now Trump has said that he is in talks secret talks with the Houthis or at least with
Ansarala. It's being reported by Reuters that Trump has made a deal with Ansarala around preventing US vessels and US
interests for being hit now in Babel Mandeb.
But uh the uh Ansarala spokesperson Abu Kadi who uh was on Sky News said they
have no contact with the US administration.
Patrick uh things are getting to a a deep crisis level. The situation with Iran, it seems that the US is having a hard time figuring out what to do there.
The data that I showed uh demonstrates a very problematic situation for US interests. And now we also have Yemen
which uh there's definitely desperation there around the Babev Strait. Your thoughts about what's going on uh and
where we are now? Well, I have to say I think the most important piece is the last thing that you just mentioned uh in
Chapter 2: Strategic geopolitical shifts
terms of of news um and that is that the uh the report as you mentioned by Reuters that said that the US were
secretly meeting with an Allah representatives or at least mediators or middlemen uh in in Muscat uh on the
sidelines in in Oman. And so it so that how much how much can we take and
believe there it's not a good look for an Allah that they're meeting and talking with US officials that first and foremost but then if this was a
strategic leak which coming from Reuters Danny I would say that is a high probability that could be um I think
it's possible with this administration you never know what it claims it when it claims it's talking or negotiating with
somebody it could be third hand. Uh it could be they are talking to somebody who might be talking to them uh to to to
the Houthies as they call them. Um but it it's all very hard to confirm. Okay.
What the what this what this does say 100% we can confirm is that this is a message to Saudi Arabia.
That's what we can confirm 100%. It's a message to Saudi Arabia. Was it not Danny Saudi Arabia that asked the United
States for assistance uh with air strike uh packages just a few days ago and was
reportedly denied that assistance. So you marry that fact, that data point with this leak story in Reuters and now we now we can see something going on.
Okay, what does it look like to us? What type of president do we have in Washington right now? What type of uh
he's been called a transactional a transactional president. Are we looking at a transaction or are we looking at a
leverage power play going on here? The target has to be Saudi Arabia. So the question we have to ask Danny is what
Chapter 3: US-Saudi security dynamics
does Saudi So what does Saudi Arabia have that the US or US ally
need uh and are not not delivering at the moment. Okay, that's the question we have to ask. And uh is it is it fuel?
Well, it can't be oil or fuel because that's offline. There's no exports confirmed today. Confirmed. zero exports
coming out of Saudi Arabia uh in the Red Sea and of course the trade of Formoose.
That's a given. So, what else? Money, cash. Well, they don't have a lot of that at the moment. I I think they're
probably down on cash flow uh and I'm sure uh as a result. Um so maybe the US
need them to buy bonds, to buy US treasuries, um to step up and help support the US dollar.
Saudi Arabia is going around to bricks meetings, Danny, and flirting with the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and
people like this. So that's on the table as far as the US is concerned and the Abraham Accords. Ah, now we're getting close.
Now we're getting close. So I think this is a very aggressive and a very dangerous power play by the US. I would
I would imagine. And I think it's also tied to an economic um situation regarding global energy
markets because while Saudi Arabia is offline that only represents roughly 5%
of the global supply of of oil. Um so
is the US going to be how concerned are they going to be about that? Is that going to be enough to bear, you know, a
lot of inflationary pressure um on the global uh futures market? Because that's the only market the US cares about. They
don't care about the physical market at the moment. There's a gap between those two. Uh but that gap could be closing as
as uh reserves and supplies run low. Um so but but at the end of the day, how much of a crisis is that actually for
the US? They're going to be selling at a higher price. uh supplies are you know destroyed or choked. Um the US is happy
to ride that situation out uh for a period of time at least through Christmas I would say uh till after the
midterms. Um so but I think what they need to get from Saudi Arabia is more important than that 5% of oil supply um
in the short term. That's what I think and what Saudi Arabia can deliver in terms of geopolitically and security guarantees regarding Israel.
I think that's more important for this current administration at this particular point in time. Um because the
the Israel lobby are still in the driving seat with this president and so much so Danny and this is going to sound
really incredible but so much so that Donald Trump may have written off the
midterm elections in order to do right by the Israeli lobby first and foremost. That includes
the the the aggressive position with Iran. That includes the Strait of Formoose. That includes the Babel Mendab Strait. Quite frankly,
I I can't see it's hard to find another way to read that. Um that that's even putting aside the opportunism of
profiteering, short-term profiteering on the global energy market because that's that looks like that's real. But the
Israel question, the Israel question, how much of that is influencing US decision-making and the moves that we're seeing right now? Very unorthodox moves.
Danny, I when have the US not come to the aid of Saudi and their hour of need?
I mean, it's very rare, especially against Yemen, especially against Ye.
Yeah. Know, this is this is a great question. You know, some have said that uh the US is gladly
willing to sacrifice Saudi Arabia. Um but then it's like to what end as you're asking the question well to what end because uh one thing that Saudi Arabia
Chapter 4: Military sustainability crisis
is definitely begging for right now and it's not looking toward the US for this is air air inter air defense
interceptors because as you know Patrick and as the audience may have been following ona has been pounding Saudi
oil positions Saudi military positions uh with missiles and drones all along
throughout this whole offensive. Now, you know, uh I'm wondering, Patrick, how much, you know, we get different
numbers. Earlier, but during theou period, NBC News reported something like um 9,000 Iranian strikes throughout the
course of the 40-day war. Now, we're hearing uh se, you know, 7,500, but that's a lot. They're saying they
shot down all of them. Only a few got in. I showed the images. I can pull more up. The lot got through. And even in just the attack a couple weeks ago, week
and a half ago, they used something like 70 to 100 air defense interceptors for the for only one of the two barges, the
20 missiles that they're willing to count. Which makes me think, Patrick, how much of this is the US then having
to take what it can get out of the Yemen situation, Saudi situation, given that yeah, it pro there that doesn't seem to
be much left to give uh to Saudi especially on this air defense question, let alone anything else. But your thoughts on that?
Well, just ju back and look at that announcement, Danny. Okay. that type of an announcement looks like it's
supposedly they're touting the success of their air defenses against the Iranians or the Yemenes. Um but it
that's not something you want to be boasting about having to expend that amount of very valuable and scarce uh u
interceptor missiles. I mean it's not that's not a good look. It's not a good announcement. So, I'm I'm reading that
as a total disaster, but they're they're they're putting it forward like showing how effective their air defenses are, but you don't want to be expending that
many. I mean, it's just not and you know, in terms of restocking and re, it's not sustainable.
That type of warfare in the current economic, military, industrial situation, especially regarding the US, it's not sustainable. So, this is bad
news. So, then you're you're you're gambling there. What do the Iranians have? Do they have another 6,000 drones?
Do they have another, you know, uh, 1500 uh, missiles? Um, and the answer is
probably yes. They probably have. Uh, if they don't have, they're in the process of stalking them as we speak. And the US
have no answer to Iran's ability to deploy uh, these types of missiles and drones ac across the region as we have
seen in the last month. If they if there was a capability for the US to do this, they would have done it, but they haven't. So look at Jordan as an
example. US military facilities in Jordan as in addition to this. So it's first of all, it's the math is horrible
for the US and for their allies. But the the the the horror doesn't end there, Danny. Okay. Step back and then look at this in the look look at Saudi Arabia.
Look at Bahrain. Look at Kuwait. Look at the UAE.
Look at the damage in Jordan. Okay, look at all this. So, uh what if if if these
are not going to be operable military positions for the US, what is the US motivation? Are they a
are they able to defend their allies and b what would be the motivation if those aren't going to be operable
forward military operating you know staging bases or operational bases in the near future or ever? What what is
the what is the motivation for the US to defend them? Um is it to defend the honor of the royal family in Kuwait
really? um or the the the the she uh the Sunni minority ruling family in Bahrain
ruling over an overwhelming Shiite majority. Okay, think about that. And and Saudi Arabia
would be basically called on to defend both of those emirates. Okay? Because the US ain't going to do it.
Where's the 82nd Airborne? Where are they? I thought that you remember the remember months ago. Oh, they're they're hovering in the area, you know, 82nd
Airborne. They're dispersed in hotels across the region and ready to activate uh for a ground operation in Iran. I
Chapter 5: Geopolitical instability risks
looking at this situation, Danny, um if the if the 82nd Airborne are loitering in West Asia, ready for an
operation, the the only operation I think that would be worth doing for US ground troops is defending some of these
Emirates, not uh not not invading Car Island.
Okay? Because think of the think of the abject humiliation, Danny, if
Iraqi Shiite Iraqi PMFs rolled into Kuwait to retake Kuwait.
Just think that. Think of what the the devastation for the American ego and everything that they've done and
everything the neo neoconservatives have achieved and quite frankly the Israelis and to Netanyahu himself.
I mean that would be to me the ultimate that would be the ultimate scene. That kind of would be that would be the
western equivalent of the toppling of Saddam Hussein statue in Baghdad. You remember that iconic scene back then?
Okay, end of the regime. Well, you know, Bahrain would be bad, but I think Saudi
would step in to defend Bahrain um at at the last minute as they have done multiple times to remain to keep the the
ruling family in power there. Okay. Um but uh Kuwait,
that's a different story. Uh, and then we could even extend that to the UAE.
Uh, although they're somewhat safer, I guess, because it's mostly foreigners that live there anyway. Um, but, uh, in
in Qatar, the same. I think Turkey is providing uh, additional security for the Qataris.
But all of a sudden, Danny, this whole scene in the Middle [laughter] East looks a little bit more unstable than it
did before. And and I think uh I think Iran, any of these things that I've
mentioned, any of these situations, including what's happening in Yemen, all of this works in favor of Iran
and anybody allying with Iran in in in the region. That's that's the way it looks right now. And I don't see the US
is going to reverse any of those trends uh in any of those particular spots. And in fact, we even need to also be
reminded, Danny, of the US are currently under orders from the Iraqi Parliament on a withdrawal timeline. It's very specific.
So add all these things together to to me the one would be Kuwait. That would be
uh that would be the the that that that would be the biggest geopolitical wound for the US.
that one even though it's a small relatively small but symbolically and what it represents in terms of the
control over the Iraqi uh kind of position uh in the region in with and and where would that leave the
Kurds in northern Iraq because that's also part of the withdrawal that's well
Iran has done a force majour on the US positions in in the KRG so I mean Just add all these things up,
Danny. And it's quite an interesting equation that we're looking at. I don't I can't tell you that's going to
transform in the next uh 2 months or 6 months or even a year, but I'm telling you, the clock is ticking already on on
on some of these these points. And I I they're not going to be the same as they are right now or they were before. In a
year or two years time, it's just not going to be the same.
that that based on everything in the direction of travel of of events right now and then I I think I can't see how
the US is going to be able to defend a hegemonic position in the region or maintain any kind of a hegemonic
position. So it would something else would have to happen. Something else would have to happen completely.
Patrick, I wanted to pull this up um because I I we definitely need to factor in this question of energy and oil uh
Chapter 6: Energy and market impact
into what you were just talking about with um USGmony, its position in the region. This immense
diesel crisis uh has become so bad that there are stations, gas stations in Texas, Orlando, and other places that
are putting up zero z00 because the pumps are now dry and the prices are going above $10 a gallon for diesel. And
here's just some photos taken there. I mean, this is a an an immense crisis. It doesn't show any signs of wearing off.
It's not as if Saudi Arabia right now is in a position to one fix its pipelines anytime soon. Uh and two to stop the war
against Yemen, even though it probably should do that as soon as possible, but it doesn't seem like it's in the position to do either of those things.
Um and the United States is still playing market manipulation. Uh we were talking before the show, you asked me,
Ed, did Trump tweet anything uh today or truth social anything I should say.
Well, he did go to Barack Ravid as the administration often does and says he's approaching a major crossroads in the
Iran war. He's saying, "I have a big decision coming up. Do I want to annihilate them being Iran or do I not?
It's a big decision and anything could happen with me." And Patrick, last time I checked, it's about it's Thursday in
the middle of the day. [laughter] Markets close tomorrow. I mean, this has been a a pattern. Every single end of
the week, we get another little nugget for the markets to react to. Uh your your thoughts on on where energy is
playing in all of this. Um because there are so many, I think, factors and and discussions and debates happening about it.
Well, yeah, I think you called called that pretty accurately. Um, that's a controlled uh statement coming from the
uh Israeli intelligence uh embed at the at Axios uh Barack Ravid. And definitely
that's a target to uh well, it's it's a it's an ambivalent kind of neutral
threat, if you will. could go either way, but it's kind of paring. He said that on multiple occasions before,
Danny. Um, I'm going to annihilate the Iranians, and he hasn't annihilated them yet. I think that's probably the sixth or seventh annihilation threat uh that
he's issued there on a high-profile uh level or publication or leak or whatnot.
So, the question is, is uh are the Iranians is the world going to call his bluff uh on that? uh
he he is pushing this Mad Dog kind of framework um which is that he's very unpredictable and he potentially could
unleash Armageddon um and everybody should just be on notice and be aware of the power that Donald Trump has over life and death of the planet and the
economy and the stock market and everything else. So that is just a continuation of that uh situation. So,
um I would say it's I I think I would say the president is probably at this stage bluffing.
Chapter 7: Assessing Trump's Iran policy
He's talking about nuclear annihilation.
There can't be a conventional annihilation with Iran. It's just not it's not possible. A the US don't have the
resources militarily to do that. They don't have the strategic positioning anymore in the region to do anything.
they they can't even do what they did previously uh in terms of conventional air strikes which did not Iran.
So even if they were to match what they did previously, it was not enough to decapitate the government. It's not enough for regime change and not enough
to them militarily nor economically. Okay? Yes, it's done damage to Iran, uh, severe damage
economically and will continue to be very difficult for Iran, but that's you have to weigh that against relatively against the political situation in Iran.
And while that strategy might work against uh a petulent impatient population uh that short-term in their
thinking and whereby uh you don't have any solidarity or cohesion in society that that maximum pressure strategy may
net results eventually but it that's not the situation in Iran. So, I mean, even
in even in Syria, you know, it took the United States uh
12 years to break Syria. And that's with, you know, 200,000 Takuri fighters
uh cleaving off, you know, cities, towns, and regions out of off the Syrian
map. and a Kurdish uh uh breakaway movement backed by the US. It still took
them 12 years to to collapse the state in Syria. Uh so much more solidarity,
cohesion, and resilience with Iran. Uh it's not an isolated economy.
Uh not in the way that Syria was. So the but yet it still took them 10 12 years
to topple the government in Syria. So I saving that reality uh I can't see
anything other than the deployment of nuclear weapons that would be a a a major game changer for for for the US
like somehow changing the tilting the balance of force um and the putting the
US in a stronger position putting Iran in a weaker position. I mean, it could happen over over 10 years, I think, if
they kept this pressure on Iran, but it would have to be military pressure as well as economic pressure. But maybe
maybe in five, maybe six, seven years, they might be able to strangle the state to a degree whereby maybe an uprising
might be possible or some kind of a uh weakening it to such a degree that they're not able to govern all their
territory. That's possible. But still, even then, Danny, best possible scenario, we're talking about five to seven years.
This president only has uh 18 months.
You know, the presidential campaign begins in April. The mid Yeah, the midterms are coming and so is the presidential election for 2028. So, uh what's he talking about, Danny?
What's he talking about? other than it's it's more transactions, it's more maneuvers to to push the market this way
or push the polling this way. Um, [snorts] president is running out of
these poker hands. Um, that he's been running so many of these short-term plays. Uh, he's [clears throat] he's
really he's now you're now at the point, Danny, where they're having to recycle stuff again. And uh so the the the US
economic situation um re you know even with the interest rate hike from the Fed Danny that that
that's going to stabilize the inflationary situation for a short period of time and it's going to stabilize uh the bond yields for a short
period of time. But all the experts agree, Danny, that the fundamentals are out of control and that eventually that
there's gonna all of these things just before are going to snap back. Um, including long-term bond yields and the
fact the US is just increasingly not creditw worthy. So, um, you've got that to contend with. And I would argue those
are much stronger forces of nature that will bear down not just on the US domestically the political situation,
but it will also bear down on what the US can do internationally.
And I I will also add another problem that's come in here. Israel is no longer able to sell its shekele bonds on the
European market. They've lost the license in Luxembourg. that was their single uh entry point into the EU bond
market. And a lot of people don't realize this is how Israel has survived.
They've selling these shekele bonds. And uh now because of the uh countries governments wanting to basically look at
sanctioning Israel um it's too much of a risk to issue a license because if one EU country issues a license for Ireland
was doing it for a while and then they had to close that loop uh because the public found out about it then Luxembourg has been doing it. Now that's
expired. they're looking for and no other European country wants to step forward to take on these Israeli issuing these Israeli bonds. Um, and so Israel's
got a huge cash flow problem, massive cash flow problem. They're hoping the United States is going to fill that gap.
Okay? But the US has got a cash flow problem as well. So, and politically
that's not going to be a good look is a big financial bailout for Israel because as as pro-Israeli as this government is,
Danny, the Trump administration, I I would say the majority of the American public do not support what Israel is
doing in in in Gaza, in the West Bank, or in Lebanon. So, in terms of a major financial bailout, like look what they
gave Argentina and look what they've done for the these other back stops for Japan and Israel is
going to require something similar and that's not going to go over too well.
That's not going to be very popular in the in in America and it's going to surely surely be divisive along Democrat and Republican lines and also it's going
to be problematic for this president. So that's another thing that's now looming uh there in the you know in the background.
I wanted to as you were talking um a few things here are Trump's claims that the
Chapter 8: US domestic political climate
US won the Iran war. Not just that he's going to annihilate them. Um he makes these claims almost seven to 14 times 15
times a month. only once now though. So things have changed a little bit uh in the month of September. I also wanted to
show you this Patrick. This is JD Vance's pitch and plea to US voters after all of this the landscape you just
laid out. This is his pitch and plea of why he should continue to support not just his regime but of course those who will be trying to ride the coattails into Congress off of it. we're fixing.
Give us another chance or give us another couple years to continue to work on the amazing things that we've been doing for the past two years. And a second argument I
So give us another chance. That's the pitch. Um of all the amazing things they've been working on. That's that's uh
your your thoughts briefly and then I have one other thing I wanted to show. But your thoughts on this?
I wouldn't use the word amazing. Uh if I was uh advance maybe incredible uh you know, incredulous maybe um but
not amazing. Um that's a really desperate that's a really desperate one that should haunt him for his presidential aspirations.
Um he's he's such a bootlicker uh with the president that uh he but he he's
been he's been tasked to go out and basically try to hype up the crowd uh ahead of the midterms. And because the
pre Trump knows that Vance is probably polling better than Trump is uh in terms of the public uh acceptability or
whatever, but Vance's sort of slavish loyalty to the president is just like nauseating at this point. And what's he
talking about? What are the great achievements? uh that a a a completely flat and spiraling economy uh record
inflation um a collapse of the US bond market countries officially bankrupt at 40
trillion and not only that arrived at the 40 trillion Danny um almost a year ahead of schedule.
Okay. So that that's that's where the award is. Oh, you delivered you you you're ramping up the national debt
quicker than uh previous presidents. So uh congratulations. There's another great achievement that's not going to go anywhere positive at all. In fact,
that's also that that particular point, the overspending by this presidency um in the record-breaking overspending,
over budget spending is actually driving all of these fundamentals that are making it even more difficult for the US to raise credit and things like that for
the government. And it's putting pressure on, of course, the American people on at every conceivable angle in terms of the cost of living and so
forth. uh plus the fuel crisis, the diesel crisis, all of that. Um the other idiotic thing that this administration
has done is decide am amid all of this, Danny, to then declare a tariff war
against uh the US most loyal and uh uh you know economically
positive partnership the US has, which is Canada. Okay.
during a diesel shortage and you're starting a trade war with the number one diesel supplier to the US at least for
half the country uh which is Canada the whole US economy which is basically
relying on uh trucking shipping so the the cost just the cost of diesel alone is going to put um that you're adding a
few percentage points in terms of inflation on pretty much everything that gets delivered by by road. Uh so yeah, I
don't think so. It's a it's a pretty weak pitch for the midterms. I think personally with that level of desperation that I I think the if you
look at the polls, uh they've written off the midterms. The the only thing that I think this
president is concerned about is that is the majority in the Senate.
uh it because of the 2/3 uh majority vote required for a conviction of impeachment. Um I don't
think they're going I don't think the Democrats are going to have that. I don't think it's you know there might be a swing in the Senate. You might get a
Democrat majority. It might be as much as five seats or something like that, but I I you're not going to get the 2/3.
Okay? So there's going to be no conviction for impeachment. However, there will be there there could be with
with with a Democrat House, there could be impeachment hearings, and that's actually what matters more. It's very
difficult, and so so few, if any, US presidents have ever been actually impeached or convicted through the
Senate uh process. Um once it's gone through the House, through the hearings, the discovery, the evidence, the
testimonies, then over to the Senate for a vote, that's very difficult and almost impossible to get. So, but where where
the value is uh for the opposition uh or for the anti-Trump block will be uh in
tying up the president through uh the impeachment hearing process through all the testimonies and all the media circus
that's going to surround that is pretty much going to paralyze this president of being able to achieve anything in the final two years in terms of any kind of a domestic. Forget about international.
Trump has basically just sabotaged um any international foreign policy uh
goals, initiatives, anything. It's it's it's it's toast. You know, it's shot to bits, as they say. Um that's not going
to happen. But domestically, um it's going to make it very difficult. And of course, you know how when they smell blood, uh, going into the general
election in 2029 or sorry, 2028, um, when they when the media smells blood, when the opposition smell blood,
then open season on Trump and anything related to Trump, and that includes JD Vance, by the way, that's going to be a
very very weak campaign by Vance if he's supposed to be the Arab parent. Um, and he is so so thoroughly tied himself to
this president. Um and so in a string of failures, in fact, some of the worst failures foreign policy, military-wise,
and economically in history of the country, uh it's not going to be a very good campaign for for Vance. Unless he
changes party, and then reverts to his normal position, which is basically a liberal Democrat. Um he's only cosplayed
as a conservative uh really in order to secure a ticket onto the Trump campaign thanks to Peter Theal and his
billionaire backers uh and big tech and big data and big AI. That's who JD Vance represents. But I think those those
powers in America, those oligarchs could just as easily find uh a uh suitable uh vehicle on the Democrat side uh to to
ride through their dreams of deregulation and uh and continue the uh the AI stock market bubble. Uh and
Democrat can do that just as well as a Republican. So but uh yeah so those are those are some of the overriding issues
I think that are going to shape it domestically I don't see a lot of salvation bandwidth internationally
though not economically not foreign policy wise not military-wise for this president
I mean he even this the the the hope Danny that there'll be a a resolution to the Ukraine crisis that at least Trump
could deliver that you you know, Kushner and Witoff, the uh Dellboy and Rodney can deliver uh some
kind of a Hail Mary there uh and come up with the goods. That's not going to happen either because we've already established that the the way Trump does
business and does diplomacy, there's going to be no enduring uh settlement, treaty, ceasefire, nothing. uh they just
they're not capable of doing it because they don't have the the process, the personnel, nor the process to make any of that happen. Um so that's not that
Chapter 9: Regional instability and proxy wars
that's off the table. So I don't see anything other than I guess stealing Greenland, invading Cuba. Uh those are
the probably the two top two uh candidates there. maybe uh trying trying
to do a coup in Nicaragua perhaps on the strength of the uh but the going to have uh political problems are already um
festering in Venezuela uh because prosperity has not been delivered in the very same way Danny that prosperity has not uh been
delivered by the uh the Takiri al-Qaeda emirate yeah I didn't even ask you about the
protests I mean they're massive Damascus and and and all over Syria, I believe, too.
Syria. Yeah. So, that's that's another one. So, think of the optics of that.
Gelani goes to the White House, photo ops with Trump, spraying perfume on on Gelani, making jokes, shooting baskets
at the White House Obama style. Uh and then all of a sudden, uh they can't stop the hemorrhaging and the theft and the
grift of the Syrian economy. It's so corrupt. Uh there's no money. The currency is in freef fall. Meanwhile,
the US is still holding on to its military bases. There have delivered nothing in terms of benefit for the Syrian people. Even the people that
supported the HTS regime change. Um they're they're probably going to be at the end of the rope pretty soon as well.
It's coming up to I guess what is it the 2-year anniversary coming up very soon in a couple of months of the toppling of the government in
Syria. Nothing positive. Nothing positive. So this is just going to continue.
Uh as Gerald Centi famously said, uh when people have nothing to lose, they lose it. And I think Syria is way past
that point uh already. So they haven't delivered. So people are now going to be and and this this is also feeds into the
uh the Arab mentality of uh reminiscing and nostalgia for previous political uh
regimes. And that's exactly what's going the conversation is going to be happening in Syria. It was better under Bashar.
It was better under Bashar. That's that's just going to be an inevitable uh an inevitable thing. So the Gulf can't
uh come in and like inject hundreds of millions in cash. Saudi certainly can't afford to do that. Uh Qatar has already
burned hundreds of billions trying to destabilize Syria over a decade. So, they're not coming in with any kind of a
rescue package because it served its geopolitical purpose.
That was the whole point. The US uh the Israeli goal was to remove the government in Damascus um and take out
what used to be an Iranian allied government, a Hezbollah allied government, uh a pro Palestinian
government, and get rid of them and replace them with pretty much anything.
and it just h so happened to be uh the former deputy head of ISIS and the founder of al-Qaeda in Syria. They put a
suit on him, called him president even though there's no elections and it sort of worked uh for a lot of people at
least for you know the la last couple of years. Saudi and the Gulf were ecstatic about this because they got a Wahhabi
takiri extremist religious nut job a head chopper uh in in charge in Damascus. They couldn't be more happy uh
because that's really what Saudi wants um to have that type of person in charge of a potentially Arab nationalist country. So basically turning Syria into
another emirate, albeit a weak emirate, but still an emirate nonetheless that's got this uh packaging of a democracy,
but of course it's not. Um Saudi is very very happy about this and that also helps to contain Lebanon as well. Saudis
pumping money into Lebanon to uh to basically corrupt the political system in Lebanon and to divide people along
sectarian lines. And the US have relied on Saudi Arabia to pro and Qatar and all these other Gulf states to provide the
Greece for all of this. They pick up the bill for all of this. Is they're basically doing Israel's work. They're
paying for pretty much everything Israel wants, including attacking the Yemenes.
I mean, it's almost like Netanyahu made the call to MBS. Can you can you deal with those guys down there, please?
You know, hey, bomb the airport in SA. like just yeah please might as well have been Netanyahu because because the only beneficiary I
can see from all of this is Israel and to and to a large degree the United States as well. Saudi Arabia I do I see
no benefit whatsoever for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and you know is is is NBS
doing ketamine with Elon on the weekends? What's going on? It's crazy if you you know it doesn't make any sense.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I playing with fire with the Babe though is is quite the uh for for
everyone involved quite the uh quite the choice historically um to make here. But
Chapter 10: International pressure on Iran
there's also Patrick when you're you know when things are going really badly what tends to also happen is we start to
get sources from I don't know this is Reuters so what MI6 CIA they tend to
begin they tend to begin to look toward uh countries like China and Russia in
some respects too and put out these kind of stories uh pressing Iran. China
supposedly has been doing secretly to reign in Ansarala after Saudi Arabia
essentially begged this to happen through mediators. Patrick, your thoughts on this? We just had the
bricks summit. Um, you know, there's obviously the conflicts that we talk
about Iran and uh Yemen, they both of course they affect China, they affect the Russia
etc. But what do you make of reports like this and de and stories like this?
They often come out in times where there aren't many options maybe for the uh United States uh and the other players involved.
Uh yeah, it it reeks it's got the it's got the factory of factory medley the scent of fake news basically.
uh China I I that's not China's style uh to be leaning on people to deal with that person or deal with that person
because China in terms of China's own energy uh supplies uh from mainly those
are coming from the Persian Gulf and it's very clear who instigated that situation. [snorts] So it's the US and
Israel that's the source of China's woes not Iran. So this idea that so they're trying to create a narrative Danny it
looks like that um if Iran would just comply if Iran would just comply and be more
cooperative and sort out the Houthies you know uh come to terms with the United States that's kind of the subtext
there so it's written in such a way that it believes that you know from that western centric worldview that everybody
is just not behaving they need to come to their senses says and do a deal with the US and it's really their fault.
They're holding up progress. They're holding up peace, prosperity, uh, and and and slowing up the global flow of energy. I mean, and that's affecting the
Chinese very very negatively. That's the that that's definitely the narrative the West will paint and continue to reinforce.
uh because that's basic that's the basic western centric hedgemonic worldview basically uh the natives need to be
tamed subdued and co-opted and if they're not behaving then they need to be dealt with and you know maybe get some other big fish to come in and you
know pressure the global south compatriots uh because they're not listening to to common sense from coming from Washington. That's basically the narrative there. Just completely insane.
So yeah, that could have been spun up by any number of uh skillful uh uh propagandists in the employee of various
uh western intelligence agencies. Uh no doubt they've got them on staff anyway as senior editors uh at the various
desks uh there including the Asian desks uh as well. So totally unrealistic and
uh if anything uh they should people should be leaning on Saudi Arabia and ask them why the hell did you start a
war with uh with with Ansar Allah in Yemen? Why what what possessed you to do that to attack SA airport? That's the
really the main question, isn't it? Then we would all like to know that what the background to that story is um where did that call come from? Who was pushing
who? And I would guess I said at the time and I think it will come out eventually later that the White House uh
pushed Saudi Arabia to do that. Um used any number of levers to to coax them into doing that. Probably promised them
that it's all going to be fine or as Trump said, quote, "It's all going to be fine and dandy is what he said to the Saudis." Um and you know, who knows?
They they how this started could have been something as inane as the US
promising Saudi Arabia a nuclear deal for their uh uranium enrichment and the nuclear uh reactor deal um in exchange
for doing this doing a solid for us by attacking the Yemenes here. And don't worry, it'll end there. Well, it didn't.
So in a way Saudis kind of maybe sprung a trap there or done something really stupid uh by you know doing something on
behalf of Washington that quite clearly has ended in a disaster for them. Uh it's it's hard to know. I think I think
that uh if that was the case it would be hugely embarrassing for MBS to know what the what what the genealogy of this
situation actually is. And it would even throw his legitimacy as leaders leader into question. So there they they would
have to double down. Uh Muhammad bin Salman will have to double down. He can't if if the truth were to be known
and I'll bet you it's damning and in on the level of either stupidity or manipulation.
Um that would throw his legitimacy as leader into question. You have to remember this is a a crown prince that
basically purged uh a vast number of members of his role,
his own family, uh from positions um that might have challenged his ascendancy to leadership and did that very publicly and aggressively.
and with the assumption being that he is the most competent, he is the smartest, he's the the best connected, has the
best line of influence with Western powers. That that that's that's where the legitimacy of MBS comes from. Um,
and all those assumptions will basically uh fall by the wayside if people were to possibly know the real story of how
Saudi Arabia has painted itself into the most uh incredible corner right now whereby there are no good options for
Saudi Arabia. um and potentially looking at an existential threat to the viability of the regime itself as a
result of the poor decisions and uh putting itself in a vulnerable position like it has. So uh of course it makes
sense in that in that situation you'd want to double down. You want to double down on a bad bad bet even and that's
exactly what they're doing. So this is actually following a very classic pattern of failure uh historically
and uh yeah but the tr eventually the the the truth will come out um on that either before or after the the regime is
gone in Riad or at least this current uh
Arab parent um Muhammad bin Salman. So yeah that's uh and and at the same time
Danny there there's also the inescapable trend and the inescapable trend is answer Allah are growing in popularity.
Okay that it's they're not ruling with an iron fist in Yemen. They have massive popular support. It's only increasing.
Nobody wants to suit up uh as part of this uh ridiculous paper mercenary army uh with the US puppets and Saudi puppets
in Aiden. They're calling them the progovernment forces or the the the National Presidential Council. I think
um I think they've got one of Salah's sons who's like the acting sort of head leader now or whatever. And they just
basically cut and run. Nobody wants to fight Answer Allah. And the reason they don't want to fight Ancelis isn't just because of their, you know, military
prowess. It's because they have popular support.
So the the it's it's a the gaggle of misfits that they threw uniforms on like
mint camo desert digital uh camo like straight straight out of the package.
Like there wasn't even a stain on anybody's uniform. And these guys look like no physique whatsoever. don't look
like they can handle a gun even. And of course, they surrendered on mass and they fled at the first sight of Ansar
Allah coming over the ridge. Okay? And they have nobody left to to no more mercenary armies are available to hire now.
Chapter 11: The evolving regional paradigm
They've done Sudan. They've, you know, that that that's dead and buried now for a couple years. there's nobody else that
they can just draw on to to get, you know, imagine trying to put a fighting force together of even 5,000.
They're they're going to struggle. You know, you might be able to get some US exalt force, exNavy seals, detachments,
US British special forces, but Triple Canopy isn't going to send in, you know,
a thousand special forces into a losing battle. No matter how much they pay those guys, they're not going to go.
They because it's done already. The UAE have fled. This summer, the UAE fled a lot of their key positions. And guess what? They left all their weapons.
They left a fortune in military gear and weapons. And where are those weapons now? Well, you know, some of them are
made the into the hands of Ansar Allah, others into al-Qaeda uh uh militants, various insundry.
Um but you know, they burned they burned all the attacker armies. I mean, Saudi could have if this if this had happened
15 years ago in Yemen, Saudi would have sent in the jackals. Yeah.
And and probably a 100,000 150,000 of them. They would have brought them like they did from from as far-flung as the Philippines, okay?
From uh from the Philippines, Indonesia, you know, you name it, all the way around Africa, al-Shabaab, plus, you
know, the entirety of the caucuses and Kosovo. But guess what? That's a spent force now. They've they've done all of
that in Syria pretty much. And ISIS was defeated as well. So there's nothing left. There's nothing left. So ans Allah are a pop they have popular support.
They have control of the main populated areas, the most populated areas of Yemen and the capital. Danny, so tell me how these are insurgents.
If you if you occupy and you're governing the capital and the majority of the populated and and you know uh
viable areas of the country, how are you the rebels? You're the government. That's the thing.
This is how it's framed in the West is that they're Houthy rebels and they're not answer Allah is a as a political movement. It's not the Houthies are just
like a small part of it. It's not uh they're not all Houthies, [laughter] you know. It's like [snorts] yes, the leader uh of the Houthis is the
the the younger brother of the late Hussein Al Houthi, the founder of the quot you know the Houthi movement uh
Abdul Malik al Houthi um he's the younger brother but there actually
relatively small percentage of the entire mo the movement's growing people got to understand the symbolism of this
revolt against Western and uh Gulf imperialism.
it the the popular support what that means to the Muslim community in the region standing up for the Palestinians even as
Danny they under siege that hundreds of thousands of Yemenes were killed starved to death by the US and the Saudis
with the support of the Israelis then bombed and attacked by the US by the Israelis by the Saudis and despite all that having lost hundreds of thousands
of people in famine and war they're still going to put it all on the line for the people of Gaza and attack
Israel, go on the offensive against Israel. Do you realize what this symbolizes to the global um to the
Muslim community? Yemen have like the the status that Yemen has accred from this
with everyday Muslims whether they're from uh Egypt whether they're from uh Libya whether they're from Tunisia
whether they're in Algeria Morocco or any of the Middle Eastern countries Iraq and so forth even Turkey they have to
respect that so before the US with Saudi uh uh portrayed them as apostates
and this is how and that they did the same thing by radicalizing Afghanistan um into to create and all of these
places around the region. All this Saudi money all the Saudi money the U and US uh political influence have have have
been for one reason which is to impose sectarian divisions among Muslims in the
in West Asia and globally. Okay. All of that is now melting. And it's melting because of what the Iranians have done,
because of the principal stance the Iranians have taken and also the the the the Houthies or Ansalah and Yemen. And
it they've transcended sectarian division. No, no one has seen this before. the US and the British and the
Israelis and some Europeans have been able to maintain this division by with a lot of money and a lot of propaganda and
a lot of dirty wars. Okay? And they and they've done this to subdue popular a real popular uprising not in the fake
Arab Spring um which was very much co-opted, steered and controlled at least in the latter stages largely by
Western and Gulf uh intelligence and and money as well. And so and in co-opting
the political parties to Egypt is a good example. Um and and even coming in to run a counter coup afterwards, okay,
which the current Egyptian president owes his position to the Amiradis and
the Saudis because they bankrolled his ascendancy into power uh when they removed the Muslim Brotherhood after the
first round of the Arab Spring. That was all financed by Saudis and the Emiratis.
They paid for everything. They ran the whole billion-dollar influence campaign for a year to oust the Muslim
Brotherhood, Muhammad Morsey's government. Okay, that that's what that was the re that's what really that's what was really going on along with all
these paid for insurgencies in Ye in in Libya, al-Qaeda movements in Syria as
well. Um that that that's the real Arab Spring, Danny, that happened. And uh so
so now all of this all these games, all of these moves, think of the think of the hundreds of billions of dollars the
Western Israel have milked the Saudis and the Qataris and the Kuwaitis and the Bahinis um to get them to pay for all
this stuff, all the weapons. Operation Timber Sycamore, the the the guns were underwritten by the Gulf. They were
procured by the West and maybe we spent a billion or two billion or three billion. They ain't nothing compared to
what those guys has had to spend. We procured everything. They paid the bill for Syria and for and probably for ISIS as well.
Yeah.
Um so so it's all for for what? It it was never sustainable. It was never
sustainable. Saudi Arabia is not a civilizational state. It is a construct as are all of those emirates including
the Kingdom of Jordan quite frankly, but they're not sustainable. They're not real civilizational states. Okay? Uh
they're not even on the level of Yemen in terms of a legit civilizational state in Arabia. Okay? Not even in Iraq's not
even a real country. It's a it's a it's a cobbled together construct uh posttoman uh British imperial construct.
However, even then, Danny, they have more civilizational roots and legitimacy as as a
Mesopotamian uh uh civilization than any of the Gulf states have anything. The the Saudi
Arabia is one giant air conditioning unit. Yeah.
With with imported uh labor. That's what it is. Yeah. And a whole lot of it, right?
It's it's it's Arizona in West Asia, you know. Um nothing against Arizona. I love Arizona, but let's just, you know, be
honest. Data centers in Arizona require a lot of aircon like they do in the Gulf.
Patrick, that was a a great assessment.
we are at time but I I'll never forget and I think a lot of people especially in the region will never forget uh first
of all the fact that the the United States for you know from all that you outlined and the US trying to stay above
it um Saudi Arabia's position right now is so precarious in large part because the US
has already failed to do what Saudi Arabia is trying to do uh this year last year. So operation rough rider was a
massive failure and it did not defeat onsala and even during that period people might remember there were a
million Yemenes on the streets every single day uh marching for Gaza and that
was the case also during the entire period when they were blockading the Red Sea in solidarity with Gaza.
this there's a bit there's a big imbalance here between what the Yemeni people are doing on Sarala um the Houthi movement
versus what's happening for Saudi the US side um and of course Iran being uh you
know right there benefiting from this very precarious dynamic.
Patrick, I want to make sure everybody knows that your Substack and 21st Century Wire YouTube channel are in the video description below. So, everyone
should subscribe to both of those things. Support Patrick's work because all of what you hear here on this channel when he comes on, he
does that work uh in spades on his own as well. So, uh hit the like button before you go. Uh tomorrow, Friday, I
have Alistister Crook at 11 a.m. Eastern time. Be sure to tune in to that. I will share all the information soon. Patrick, any final words before we head out of here?
No. Uh I appreciate uh the conversation, Danny. Uh it's a very very interesting time and uh yeah, we could be looking at
the beginnings of a new uh quote Middle East or a new West Asia.
Not immediately, of course, but I think the process is is beginning. And I think the cradle of it all is Yemen. Mhm.
And and actually that is the cradle of Arabicuh civilization. Actually, it is Yemen,
not not Saudi Arabia. So, uh not the Bedwin tribes of uh the the the Baron
corridor. No, no, no. It's Yemen uh historically. And that go and we're talking thousands and thousands of years.
So, that's that's a reality. And we're starting to see the the reasserting of
that identity um and that uh sense of drive and purpose. Uh and I think given time uh solidarity as well, but not yet.
But we're getting there. We're getting there. So I think it's going to be really important. Um, people also just remember, you know, how many different
Arab tribes throughout the region, including people in Lebanon, in Syria, who came from, guess where, Yemen.
So, the influence of Yemen is is regionwide.
And it's always been like that if you look at back at history as as as much as as as Egypt uh as well along along the
similar lines as Egypt. Um, and so you that that's another reason why I don't I don't see the Saudis running to Egypt
for assistance or help um possibly to help with the Yemenes. I don't see Egypt playing that game at all. Um, in fact,
they tried that in the past and it uh didn't work out particularly well uh for the Egyptians and nor would I would I
think they'd want to go down that road anyway. Um, so it it's the paradigm.
Danny is the Gulf monarchies versus Arab nationalists. Yeah.
Generally speaking, and I throw Iran in there, even though they're not Arab um as or nationalist countries, that's the
real paradigm in the region. It's the one the US and Israel want to maintain uh to protect. Um but it's also the one
that's falling apart now. and uh and probably in favor of the uh popular movements, popular movements, pop
popular Arab nationalist movements, popular Shiite uh and even uh religious stroke nationalist or like Islamic
republics uh movements as well. So that's that's what we're seeing and that's always been the forces that
govern the the region with uh with western control have always had their
hands on these exact levers uh throughout colonial history as well.
Yeah, great points everyone. You heard Patrick here. Be sure to support his work outside of here too. Substack and
YouTube at 21st Century Wire. Find those links in the video description. Hit the like button before you go. I'll see you tomorrow, 11:00 a.m. Eastern time. Until next time, everybody. Peace out.

