[Get Your Copy of New Dawn Magazine #203 - Mar-Apr Issue]

NICOSIA – In approximately three weeks time, the island of Cyprus will begin receiving its annual cash injection – from holiday tourism. That’s what’s known as a ‘good injection’.

After only a day here, it’s become very clear that the people of Cyprus are concerned, some even scared – about a financial contagion and shock treatment which threatens their future prosperity.

Soon, they will get another ‘bad’ injection, which we are told will be deadly. So we are treating this like a crime scene.  The next injection will be administered by ‘Dr Troika’. Just utter his name in public here and you will see wrinkles in people’s faces.

The people of Cyprus did not ask for this, yet, they are being forced to take it by the mad economic doctors in Brussels, Berlin and the IMF. It’s the sort of bad medicine that the banking syndicates and corrupt officials have been administering for a while now, in order to take down governments and economies all over the globe with devastating effect.

I arrived in Cyprus on Wednesday night, and was joined by UK-based writer and talk show host Jason Liosatos from Global Peace Radio.  We headed to the capital city of Nicosia the next morning to document what many were expecting to be a run on the island’s banks at noon. After 15 days of closed doors to hundreds of thousands of residents, their savings had been locked inside the banks during the extended “bank holiday”. This particular ‘holiday’ will go down in history as one of the worse on record.

Depositors waiting in line after a long ‘bank holiday’ in Cyprus (Image: 21WIRE)

The lines began forming around 11am, but to everyone’s surprise – except the Cypriots’ of course, the lines were not as long as many expected, and not as long as the corporate mainstream media expected either. Most were hoping for a fight in front of both the old town’s Bank of Cyprus (good bank) and Laiki Bank (bad bank) branches.

The majority of those queuing were older people, but these included many of the top depositors whose life savings have been clipped by the Troika.

We asked around and quickly learned why the Cypriots did not all rush the bank on Thursday at high noon. Many residents told us there was a community feeling that islanders did not want to stress the Bank of Cyprus by storming its branches. Strict capital controls have been put into place to slow the cash hemorrhaging this week, with most residents restricted to 300 euros per day, for four days, followed by an official assessment of the situation.

There’s a lot of talk of Cyprus’s potential riches from untapped gas and oil, and many residents believe the bankers have taken down the economy here in order to exchange the island’s future riches for a series of expensive (if not utterly debilitating) ECB and IMF loans. But that’s still a ways off, and more pressing matters are salary cuts, pension cuts, a flight of wealth off of the island, and of course – that fact that people’s money is being literally stolen from their accounts.

When elites go to war, and fight their financial battles, it seems that the only victims are the average mom and pop. After meeting with several local residents and business owners, it came abundantly clear that even the street sweepers knew that a criminal banking syndicate had held a gun to their heads and then stolen their money in broad daylight.

PHOTO: We sit down with the neighborhood guys who really know what’s going on with Cyprus bank collapse, and do foreign exchange over coffee.

A retired resident, Mr Andreas, explained, “We Cypriots have dignity. I had only 3 euros in my pocket for the last week – enough only to buy a cup of coffee, but I will not line up today and beg the Troika for my daily withdrawal of 300 euros.”

He adds, “Our friends in Europe have treated us like gangsters and criminals. Our government leaders have made mistakes, yes, but why are we being forced to pay? It’s blackmail. This is stealing from the people, that’s all.”

Not surprisingly, there were no Russian Oligarchs waiting to get inside any of the island’s branches on Thursday, many of them apparently withdrew their money from Russian-based branches of Laiki and Cyprus banks which remained open – at the same time that the banks in Cyprus were shut.

Mr Kiriakos, a local bar owner lamented over a beer with us before closing shop, explaining the reality of this latest banker-led heist in Cyprus. “I’ve been working all my life – 30 years, so I can send my daughters to university and give them a better life than I had, and they can just come and take that money?

They are running a big casino, when they win they put the money in their pockets, but if  they lose… they take the money out of our pockets.”

Cyprus Day 2: As the Dust Settles, Talk of Reciprocity and Whispers of Retribution

Cyprus Day 3: The Sword of Damocles Still Hangs Over the Island

RT in Cyprus: ‘Troika will take everything and push Russians out’

[Get Your Copy of New Dawn Magazine #203 - Mar-Apr Issue]

Filed Under: Europe, Featured, Financial, International News Tagged With: 300 euros a day, Bank of Cyprus, Capital Controls, Cyprus, ECB, EU, Fear and Loathing, IMF, Nicosia, Troika

EP #557 – ‘Inhumanity Inc’ with Patrick Henningsen and guests

[Get Your Copy of New Dawn Magazine #203 - Mar-Apr Issue]

Will Trump and Putin Meet Face to Face? – Lt Col Daniel Davis with Patrick Henningsen

UKC News: Dutch Intelligence Deem Israel a Threat + British Plan for Baltic False Flag

Speaker Johnson’s West Bank Visit: A Catalyst for Criticism

Featured, Israel, Israeli Settlers, Middle East, Netanyahu, OPT, Palestine, settlements, United Nations, US News, West Bank

MIDWEEK WIRE – ‘Playing With Nuclear Fire’ – Patrick Henningsen and Freddie Ponton

#NeverTrump, Featured, Freddie Ponton, Midweek Wire Show, NATO, nuclear, Patrick Henningsen, Trump, WWIII

The Gaza Humanitarian Foundation: The Intersection of Information Warfare and Humanitarian Aid

famine, Featured, Gaza, genocide, Human Rights, Israel, Middle East, Palestine

UK Accused by Russian Intelligence of Masterminding a Sabotage Campaign Against Russian Shadow Fleet

energy, Europe, Featured, Keir Starmer, NATO, Nordstream 2, Norway, Oil, Russia, sanctions, Ukraine

‘Calm Seas and Fair Winds’ for The Global Sumud Flotilla to Gaza

Featured, Gaza, Gaza Flotilla, Israel, Middle East, Palestine, siege, Tunisia

famine, Featured, Gaza, genocide, Human Rights, Israel, Middle East, Palestine

The Illusion of Justice: Israel’s Military Investigation’s Theatre in Gaza

Featured, Gaza, History, Human Rights, Israel, Middle East, Palestine, war crimes

SUNDAY WIRE EP 557 – ‘Inhumanity Inc’ with Patrick Henningsen and guests

[Get Your Copy of New Dawn Magazine #203 - Mar-Apr Issue]
