How Iran is Breaking the Back of US Empire

The current crisis of the US shortage of ammunition and interceptor missiles did not begin with its war waged against Iran over these last 6 months. In reality, this terminal process began in February 2022 with NATO’s proxy war against Russia in Ukraine—and with each successive wave of Iranian drones and missiles starting with its operation True Promise I against Israel in April 2024, and every successive wave after that. None of the so-called military experts in the US dared to speak publicly about this. Instead they all buried their heads in the sand and collected their stock dividends hoping this dearth in supplies would magically fix itself. This has triggered to collapse of US deference and power projection across multiple global theaters. And Trump can’t do anything about it, other than play games, make bombastic claims and idle threats, while desperately rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic of a flailing myopic and aimless American Empire. All this and more.

Yesterday, I spoke at length with Deep Dive host Lt Col Daniel Davis about this and other critical aspects of the US losing its foothold in West Asia, and how this trend is going undermine its illusion of America providing 'security' to its client states in the Pacific. Watch:

Last week Mearsheimer says he sees no connection between Project Ukraine and the war against Iran. That makes him a rodeo clown. From 2018:

The reason the US and EU has poured so much cash into Ukraine was so Israel could arm terrorists for these current wars and genocides. Look how many different countries Ukrainian weapons where showing up. Even the Sicilian Cosa Nostra are buying high tech Ukrainian weapons.

Poroshenko and Robert Mueller created NABU to distribute the billions they knew they were going to steal and would need laundering and to manage the weapons smuggling and kids, drugs and organs ratlines.

Ask Kellogg's daughter, Megan Moobs of R.T. Weatherman Foundation, about the battlefield organ recovery business. She controls USAID funds for 40 NGOs.

then telling their next of kin they were KIA.

"...R.T. Weatherman Foundation, she manages a flow of aid and opaque operations in Ukraine—including the evacuation of US mercenaries and the controversial transfer of children abroad."

Or ask former head of the Jewish World Congress, oligarch Ihor Kolomoisky about the organ biz. He created Azov--and Zelensky too.

Or ask Ericka Kirk about, "...the controversial transfer of children abroad."
