Iran & Yemen Reshaping Region, US and Israel Attempt to Strong-arm Saudis

With Iran continuing to inflict severe damage on US bases across West Asia, as well as shutting down the Strait of Hormuz—coupled with Yemen’s Ansar Allah (aka “The Houthis”) controlling the Bad al-Mendab Strait—a new Middle East (West Asia) is beginning to take shape. Couple this with the fact that Israel finds itself in an increasingly weak position – both politically and financially, and we can see how irreversible structural changes are already in motion. How long this process will take is anyone’s guess, but the road ahead still looks as turbulent as ever. The risks of overall escalation and more crippling system-level perturbations has never been higher. Meanwhile, by denying military assistance in Saudi’s time of need against the Yemenis, the US and Israel are clearly strong-arming the Saudis into joining the ill-fated Abraham Accords. Will it work?

I recently spoke with host Danny Haiphong to discusses the latest developmentsin West Asia and beyond. Watch:

NOTE: This interview was recorded on Thursday September 17, 2026.

Thanks for helping us to understand who the Houthi's are and were........following the Arab spring the continuous attacks on Yemen left us confused.....and horrified.

The USA's meddling in the Middle East has been more persistent and convoluted than most of us can understand, given the superficial coverage of most western media. So we heard about hunger, malnutrition and medical need in Yemen, but no one provided us with a detailed analysis of why Saudi Arabia continued to bomb the country......or who the Houthis were, who the official government was...........or any damn thing that made the conflict make sense.

One thing this current American debacle has done: it has brought some clarity to the region....at least for us Canadians. As a result, we are beginning to believe that when it comes to western foreign policy, we in the west are fed a steady diet of BS and outright lies.

Nothing worse then getting old in what you believe is a democracy, only to discover it might be a branch plant of the most evil Empire on earth. But here we are.
