######## ESSAY How the West Destroys Itself by Conflating Morality with Moralism (2026-08-10)

International politics could use much more morality, yet moralism is destroying the entire fabric of the international system. Morality entails a commitment to principles about what is right and wrong, while moralism uses moral principles to judge, condemn, and police others to form a hierarchy of moral status. Moralism can undermine morality as questioning one’s own moral principles is replaced with solely examining the morality of others.

We want our political and media establishment to ask the question of what the right thing to do is, not who is morally good and who is morally bad. Morality is about elevating key principles above power politics, while the moralist uses moral sloganeering as an instrument of power politics. Morality can entail avoiding the use of ad hominem arguments in the effort of seeing the world from the opponent’s side, while the moralist will rely primarily on ad hominem arguments to denounce those who disagree as bad people.

Over the decades and centuries, it was understood that states must manage security competition, as increased security for one state can reduce security for another. Thus, the first step toward stability and peace is to place oneself in the shoes of the opponent, understand their security concerns, and then find ways to mitigate security competition and pursue forms of indivisible security. Yet, a new political language has emerged across the West that is tilted toward war, in which even discussing the security concerns of opponents is immediately attacked as “legitimizing,” “justifying,” or “supporting” the opponent.

An obsession with elevating or degrading people’s moral status fuels tribal thinking, as vastly different moral principles will be applied to “us” versus “the other.” At worst, “we” may do the wrong thing but for the right reason. In contrast, the “other” may at best do the right thing but for the wrong reason. Morality in international politics can restrain power, while moralism can sanctify power. When conflicts are seen as a struggle between good and evil, one’s own actions are always legitimate, and the actions of the opponent are always illegitimate. Public discourse must be limited within these strict boundaries to be considered acceptable.

Moralists reduce complicated conflicts to a binary of good versus evil, in which intellectual pluralism is immoral. Established truths shall no longer be challenged, and academics are subsequently not asked about historical context or invited to unpack their analysis. Instead, they are confronted with the demand to “condemn” the other side as a loyalty test before being allowed to participate in the discourse. Once an opponent has been categorized as immoral, they will be interpreted as simply aggressive when they escalate and weak when they are restrained.

Strategic thinking dies under moralism because strategic thinking is about setting objectives with limited resources. This entails thinking in terms of priorities, trade-offs, motivations, capabilities, and the perspectives of the other side to predict how they will respond. A hegemon does not need to prioritize, and a moralist hegemon will encourage people to think solely in terms of right and wrong, good versus evil. We no longer ask what the Chinese, the Russians, and the Iranians want; we only discuss what kind of people they are as opponents of our liberal democracy that will allegedly serve all of mankind.

After the Cold War, the West was no longer balanced by the Soviet Union and found itself in an ideological vacuum without its communist rival. The West subsequently pursued a world order defined as liberal hegemony, in which the West would dominate the world rather than manage great-power balancing, yet this dominance would supposedly be to the benefit of everyone, as it would elevate the role of liberal democracy and human rights. A hegemon requires legitimacy, and it is reliant on convincing its own populations that its policies represent universal moral principles and that its opponents are enemies of those virtuous principles.

The West presented the advancement of Western interests as the advancement of universal values. Competing security interests largely disappeared from the political language and were replaced with a narrative of threats to universal values posed by “rogue states.” Liberal democracy effectively became a hegemonic norm. The Westerner does not need to know any historical context, or even know where a country is on a map, to nonetheless be certain that the analytical context behind conflicts is that of liberal democracy versus authoritarianism. In the 1990s, it was possible to discuss why NATO expansionism would threaten Russian security, while in the present era, it is alleged that Russia merely fears the advancement of democracy.

The West is not merely waging an economic war against China over its alleged “overcapacity,” fighting a proxy war against Russia on the absurd premise that Russia’s military actions were “unprovoked,” or waging a direct war against Iran ostensibly to prevent nuclear proliferation or liberate women. The situation is far more serious. The West is dismantling the foundations of the international system itself—its laws, rules, diplomacy, trust, and economic and political connectivity. In the name of defending the international order, it is progressively destroying the very institutions that make an international order possible.

When we recognize competing security interests, mutual understanding and compromise are the path to peace. When we believe that the world consists of good versus bad values, then we must avoid justifying the opponent and compromise is appeasement. Peace is only possible when the good defeats evil.

There is the view among Eastern Christians, including Russian Orthodox, that moralism is one of the primary heresies of Western Christianity and that it is deeply ingrained in the culture of the West - Western Europe and the Anglo colonies. The Eastern Church views the Church as being a hospital (healing) for souls, while the Western Church is like a courtroom (judgment) for souls.

They would say that this moralism is deeply ingrained in Western culture and thus always available for political manipulation. Moralism was one driver of Western Europe's repeated invasions of Russian lands, invasions which were rationalized as being a civilizing mission to civilize immoral Russia by making it Roman Catholic.

Even in the 'post-Christian' West, Western culture continues to be very moralist, even the ideology and moral code has changed somewhat. But the strident moralism remains.

I hope to see a major Western newspaper publish this in its Op Ed section. Now I will hold my breath.....

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts

######## ESSAY The West on the Path to World War - Glenn Diesen’s Substack (2026-08-20)

The most important question of social systems is what creates order by managing competing interests? In international security, we must therefore ask the question: How do we manage the competing security interests of states?

We have not asked this question in a long time as the post-Cold War world order was organised around the collective hegemony of the West. A hegemonic system does manage competing security interests of states, rather it seeks stability, order and peace through dominance. However, that hegemony is now gone and we must yet again address competing security interests of states.

Discussing the security concerns of other states is especially difficult for a former hegemon as it is perceived as a betrayal of universal values. Hegemons always seek to legitimise their dominance as a common good, which is why the particular interests and priveliges of the hegemon are depicted as “universal values”. The West no longer speaks about international security as competing security interests, but as universal values.

The post-Cold War world order of liberal hegemony portrayed the collective hegemony of the West as a “force for good” by allegedly advancing liberal democratic values. The Western political class raised over the past decades fully embraced an ideology based on Fukuyama’s theory of the “End of History”, as the world would unify under liberal democracy and Western leadership. Liberal hegemony became a hegemonic norm as these universal values could only prevail under Western dominance.

A declining hegemon will predictably seek to weaken rising powers, and all “universal values” that no longer sustains hegemony can be thrown out the window. What is the predictable response by the former hegemon?

The predictable response would be an economic war against China to prevent its technological and economic rise, and if that does not work, escalate to an actual war. In Europe, hegemony can be restored with NATO expansionism and proxy wars to weaken Russia as a rival power. In the Middle East, Iran would be the principal target for regime-change or destruction as the main rival power in the Middle East. The Western Hemisphere must again fall under the Monroe Doctrine, Africa will become a battleground for influence, and allies of the hegemon must pay tribute.

However, the hegemony is already gone. China can resist economic coercion, Russia can balance NATO expansionism, Iran has triumphantly defeated the US, and the imperial overstretch of Washington has now accelerated far beyond what is sustainable. There are no solutions to the coming economic crisis that can rescue the situation.

Can peace only exist if the US economy and technology dominate China? Can peace in Europe only exist if NATO expansionism persists and it can attack other states unhindered? Can peace in the Middle East only exist if every rival state of the West in the region is regime-changed or destroyed? Can peace and order only exist if the West can intrude into the domestic affairs of other states?

Ask the ideological fundamentalists in the West about what creates order, and the response will always refer to some form of “universal values” linked to Western hegemony.

Our greatest challenge in the West is to adjust to a new international distribution of power: How do we achieve peace and order in a post-hegemonic world?

Abandoning hegemonic ideologies and yet again developing systems that manage competing security interests is not easy. The new political class rose over the past decades on the belief that they had a unique role in history—they were responsible for the transition from the formerly disorderly world to a more benign, just, and stable world. In a virtuous new civilising mission, the West would dominate in perpetuity, and it would be to the benefit of all mankind. Instead, they are presiding over an era that ends 500 years of Western dominance.

In such an environment, ideological fundamentalists in the West will refuse to discuss adjusting to the new international distribution of power. They will certainly not discuss the security concerns of rival states, which is perceived as betraying universal values. Instead, we see that militant hawks rise quickly if they can promote the delusion that one great war can restore the golden era.

As the West prepares itself for perpetual war with the promise of delivering perpetual peace, the rules that legitimised the hegemon will be sacrifised. Freedom of speech, freedom of navigation, the rules of international financial system, international trade, and other rules that ensured an open and connected world are being burned down. What were sacred principles are abandoned with the support of jihadist groups, fascist groups and by even making genocide acceptable. Diplomacy is dismissed as appeasement and even the fear of nuclear war is casually dismissed as giving in to nuclear blackmail.

By rejecting a system that seeks order and peace by managing competing security interests, the West has chosen war to restore its unattainable hegemonic peace.

As excellent an interviewer as Glenn Diesen is... he is an even better journalist.

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts

######## ESSAY NATO’s War in Ukraine - Glenn Diesen’s Substack (2026-08-26)

I published the following article in a Norwegian newspaper in February 2023, on the first anniversary of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. My argument is that the war will continue until an agreement can be reached on the European security architecture: Natos krig | Klassekampen

We are constantly told that Russia’s invasion was unprovoked and motivated solely by the desire to annex territory. The conclusion, therefore, is that Moscow cannot be negotiated with and that NATO’s role in the war is solely to help Ukraine defend itself. With such a narrative, we are convinced that there is only a military solution and that Norway therefore had to abandon its tradition of refraining from sending Norwegian weapons to war zones.

But if NATO provoked the war and sabotaged all attempts at peace, then the weapons shipments must be interpreted as a cynical use of Ukrainians in a Cold War against Russia. Acknowledging NATO’s involvement in this war is necessary to begin negotiations, and it should not be equated with supporting Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. In 1990, we established a new, inclusive Europe with the “Charter of Paris for a New Europe.” The agreement was based on “indivisible security” and “sovereign equality” in a Europe without dividing lines. Four years later, we developed a common security institution with Russia, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), based on the same principles.

The decision to expand NATO resulted in the principles of these agreements being abandoned. Instead of “indivisible security,” NATO increased its own security at the expense of Russian security. Instead of a Europe without dividing lines, we are fighting a new Cold War over where the new dividing lines should be drawn. Ukraine, Georgia, Belarus, and Moldova are therefore the new front line.

In 1994, even President Clinton warned that NATO expansion could destabilize Europe, as drawing a new line between East and West could create a self-fulfilling prophecy of future confrontation. When Clinton changed his mind, his Secretary of Defense, William Perry, considered resigning in protest. Perry claims that those pushing for NATO expansion acknowledged that it would destroy peace with Russia, but did not believe it mattered because Russia was weak, and their attitude was essentially: “Who cares what they think?”

Jack Matlock, the U.S. ambassador to the Soviet Union who participated in negotiations to end the Cold War, condemned NATO expansionism as a betrayal of Russia that destroyed the foundation for lasting peace. George Kennan, the architect of the containment policy toward the Soviet Union, predicted that NATO expansionism was a provocation that would start a new Cold War, and that if Russia responded to the provocations, NATO would wrongly place all the blame on Russia.

Bringing Ukraine onto our side of the new dividing lines in Europe was a recipe for war. William Burns, the U.S. ambassador to Russia and now CIA director, warned in 2008 that bringing Ukraine into NATO could trigger a civil war and that Russia would likely intervene on behalf of eastern Ukraine, something Moscow did not want to have to do. Angela Merkel agreed with this assessment when she argued that giving Ukraine a Membership Action Plan to join NATO would be interpreted by Moscow as “a declaration of war”.

But NATO continued pushing Ukrainians toward membership they did not want. In 2011, NATO published a report arguing that the greatest challenge in its relationship with Ukraine was that NATO membership was highly unpopular, with some opinion polls showing less than 20 percent support among the population. In 2014, NATO supported a “democratic revolution” that did not have majority support among Ukrainians and that violated the constitution.

Leaked phone calls revealed that the United States had handpicked the new administration several weeks before helping remove the democratically elected president from power.

The civil war predictably began after the coup, and Russia intervened. The conflict appeared to be resolved in February 2015 with the Minsk Agreement, to which all parties—including the West—committed themselves. We have since learned that the United States and Britain sabotaged the peace agreement for seven years, and both Germany and France now claim that the agreement was only created to buy time to arm “their” Ukraine.

In 2019, Zelensky was elected with 73 percent of the vote on a peace platform, promising to implement the Minsk Agreement in order to achieve peace with Donbas and Russia. But he made a complete U-turn after nationalists funded and trained by the United States threatened to kill him.

In 2021, Moscow attempted to negotiate with NATO to stop the increased American presence along its borders, including NATO’s modernization of two Ukrainian ports so that they could be used by American warships. The former head of Russia analysis at the CIA argued in December 2021 that Russia could invade because “the risk of inaction” had become too great.

Russia invaded in February 2022 to establish a new status quo in Ukraine after eight years of war in Donbas and NATO’s gradual buildup of the Ukrainian military.

Three days into the invasion, negotiations had already begun. Israeli Prime Minister Bennett mediated in the negotiations and claims that both Russia and Ukraine wanted an agreement under which Ukraine would stay out of NATO in exchange for Russia withdrawing its forces. But according to Bennett, the United States and Britain sabotaged the peace agreement because they wanted to use the Ukrainian army they had built against Russia. Turkey’s Foreign Minister also confirmed the two parties came close to an agreement involving Ukrainian neutrality in exchange for a Russian withdrawal. But according to Turkey and the former head of the German Armed Forces, the peace agreement was again sabotaged by the United States and Britain, which wanted to wage war against Russia using Ukrainians. The strategy of provoking greater Russian involvement in Ukraine was one of the recommendations in a 2019 RAND report, commissioned by the U.S. military, on how Russia could be weakened.

The U.S. Secretary of Defense declared that the goal of the war was to weaken Russia. Senator Mitch McConnell confirmed that “cold, hard, practical American interests” were the reason for weakening and defeating Russia. Senator Lindsey Graham explained that the United States has a good deal because it sends weapons while Zelensky promises that “they will fight to the last person.”

If this was an unprovoked and opportunistic invasion, weapons shipments could cause Russia to withdraw because the costs would become greater than the benefits. But if Russia considers NATO an existential threat, weapons shipments will only escalate the conflict toward nuclear war. Instead of using Ukraine as a pawn in the new Cold War, we should support negotiations that provide the security guarantees Moscow demanded a year ago, based on existing agreements from the 1990s that we abandoned.

I grew up so proud of my country, notwithstanding some of its worst times such as Vietnam, my era. Today I see that absolute power does corrupt absolutely. What we did to the world after the collapse of the USSR was criminal in itself. Our rival fell from its own internal problems. This was the end of the USSR as analysts had always predicted, but we could never say when or even if in our lifetimes. And while the rest of the world stood around clapping, the US grabbed all of the Soviet Union's power as its own and dubbed itself ruler of the planet. And that is when every one of our bad habits became dominant traits. Arrogance, rudeness, pushiness, the flaunting of money, etc. But worst was: the addiction the US developed for endless war, the profits from which slid down the maw of the military-industrial complex where billions went to a handful of humans. Meanwhile those weapons were killing many many thousands of people in our hands and in the hands of others, such as Israel. We openly ridiculed other countries, Russia being the easiest target. I personally remember the hubris not only of the Americans, but of the east Europeans we hustled into NATO. I was at some Atlantic Council or NATO fest somewhere in Europe and spoke with a young Romanian, 30 years my junior. I offered my view that it was a grave error of NATO to expand eastward and she, grinned and said that NATO was the strongest union in the world and Russia could, basically, eat dirt. I tried to explain that one day Russia was going to get off its knees and teach NATO a lesson, but deaf ears. I also heard the "who cares what Russia thinks?" from various US aspiring young military officers and government officials att the time, Americans. In the Kosovo OSCE, our "retired US military" members of the gigantic circus also had to dig at the Russian members (not directly, of course) all the time, right up until the Russians took the Pristina airport. And in the end, all those Prof. Diesen mentioned who tried to warn NATO off its dreams of empire proved right. I don't think NATO will survive what is coming, or if anybody will. Because the west is trapped in some kind of contagious hysteria, like the witches of Salem, writhing in anger and ecstasy, fear and delight. And Europe's own dreams of grandeur bloom like a poisonous flower,. just as those of the Americans fade to dust.

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts

######## ESSAY Ratcliffe’s Moscow Trip: A Visit Before the Storm (2026-08-28)

There will unavoidably be a lot of speculation about CIA Director John Ratcliffe’s brief visit to Moscow due to the secrecy surrounding it, and media stories must conform to the war narratives. We are told that this was a routine visit and nothing out of the ordinary, although in reality, this was the first visit by a CIA director since November 2021. Given the deteriorating situation between NATO and Russia, we can draw some conclusions about the likely purpose of the visit.

The visit was likely intended to deliver a message and a threat to Moscow as desperation grows in Washington. NATO and Russia are now in the most dangerous period ever in their history of conflict. The CIA has been in charge of the Ukraine proxy war against Russia since the coup in 2014, and massive escalations can be expected as it all falls apart.

The Ukrainian army is exhausted and collapsing across the frontlines; the economy is falling apart due to the naval blockade and destruction of critical infrastructure; there is growing social upheaval from the aggressive “recruitment” of military conscripts and economic problems; the political crisis could bring down the government; NATO is running out of money and weapons to keep the proxy war going; and political opposition is growing across Europe that cannot be suppressed forever.

The US is bogged down in Iran and facing an economic crisis, while Russia is assisting Iran and has become the leading partner of China in establishing an alternative international economic architecture. The US wars against Russia and Iran, as well as the economic war against China, were intended to knock out or roll back the key adversaries on the Eurasian continent to restore US global primacy. Instead, these wars have intensified the shift toward a multipolar world order, as the US is facing defeat on all fronts and has exhausted itself militarily and economically, while the stability of the US political system is going from bad to worse. The US has pushed its main Eurasian adversaries together in what can only be described as Kissinger’s worst nightmare, and the Political West is fragmenting from imperial overstretch and the absence of a post-hegemonic economic model.

Trump continues to insist that the US has defeated Iran and the Strait of Hormuz is open and under US control, while NATO continues to insist that “Ukraine is winning”. As NATO’s proxy war in Ukraine begins to falter, NATO will likely escalate, as seen by Britain’s reckless actions. Russia, on its part, will likely escalate against Ukraine toward a knockout blow and take a tougher line with NATO to restore its deterrence, as NATO crossed the boundaries between proxy war and direct war long ago. Deterring NATO does not entail an invasion, but imposing a cost in the form of covert operations or even direct strikes are options for enforcing Russia’s red lines. Although, at the moment, the priority is to put an end to the proxy war without unnecessary escalation with NATO.

So what was Ratcliffe doing in Moscow? How can the US use diplomacy to improve its situation? It seems highly unlikely that NATO is prepared to give up its large Ukrainian proxy army by agreeing to any peace agreement that would restore Ukraine’s neutrality and resolve the territorial dispute. Much like the war with Iran, diplomatic initiatives are intended to secure a pause to regroup and shape the battlefield more favorably.

The 40+ day campaign by Ukraine and NATO to strike civilian infrastructure deep inside Russia did not break Russia, rather it backfired in a big way. Ratcliffe likely wanted an end to the naval blockade by returning to the rules of the grain deal, a ceasefire against energy infrastructure, and a halt to the offensive against the cities of Slovyansk, Kramatorsk, and Zaporizhzhia. There are likely also concerns in Washington about Russia preparing to open up yet another front in the Chernigov region. Such initiatives are, much like the EU-proposed unconditional ceasefire, intended to prolong the war rather than put an end to it.

It therefore also seems highly unlikely that Russia will make any concessions, as Russia cannot make any significant concessions. If this was a war about territorial expansion, then NATO escalation and pressure may have produced some Russian concessions. However, the uncomfortable truth that the political-media establishment in NATO refuses to accept is that Russia considers NATO’s incursion into Ukraine to be an existential threat. Whether or not NATO agrees with this assessment is completely irrelevant as Russia will act on its conviction. This suggests Russia has very little room for concessions.

The conflict could have been resolved at any time since 2014 by ending NATO expansion and restoring Ukraine’s neutrality. In the absence of any political settlement that ensures this objective, Russia will strip Ukraine of the high-value territory that can be used as a NATO frontline against Russia, and the rest of Ukraine will be reduced to a dysfunctional landlocked rump state. This solution will create a terribly difficult future for Ukraine and decades of instability for both NATO and Russia, yet from Moscow’s perspective it is the only possible path as NATO will not stop expanding and restoring Ukraine’s neutrality.

The optimist in me would like to think that Ratcliffe’s visit was intended to strengthen diplomatic channels and coordination to navigate through the extremely dangerous time we are heading into. Although, it seems more likely that diplomacy still takes the form of more ultimatums and threats in the hope of rescuing the situation. Predictably, this will not be received well in Moscow where the anger is boiling over

This is a superb concise summary of human civilisation and feels rather like its swan song too. May GOD have mercy on us all.

Well said Glenn, I agree with your analysis and hope that a firm Russian response to UK and Germany will quell their lust for WW III

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts

######## ESSAY The Disorderly Transition to Multipolarity (2026-09-05)

The international system naturally gravitates toward an international balance of power, in which no one state or group of states can dictate to the rest. The balance of power, which constrains all the major powers, can be disrupted if a great power is defeated at war or collapses from within. Yet, states do not balance themselves and will pursue expansionist policies when unconstrained. The predictable consequence is thus that the unbalanced power will pursue expansionist policies that exhaust it, while other rising powers at the periphery will begin to collectively balance the hegemon. The international system would thus gravitate back toward an equilibrium.

The collapse of the Soviet Union disrupted the international balance of power, as the world was left with only one superpower. The consequence was predictable: the U.S. would embrace a hegemonic security strategy that would make peace dependent on global primacy. Without any checks on its power, the U.S. would expand in every direction in terms of engaging in wars and expanding military alliances such as NATO. Strategic thinking deteriorates as the hegemon can be everywhere and does not need to prioritize, while it can also make many mistakes as it can absorb the costs of its follies.

However, the U.S. would eventually exhaust itself with unsustainable debt, and at home the empire would create economic inequalities, social problems, democratic deficits, and political instability. As the hegemon must prevent the rise of rivals to maintain a unipolar distribution of power, rising powers such as China, Russia, India, and others collectively balance the U.S. New political organizations like BRICS and the SCO emerge, new security arrangements emerge, and there is growing economic cooperation in technology, industry, transportation corridors, banks, payment systems, trade in national currencies, etc.

The U.S. has the option of either adjusting to the new multipolar distribution of power or attempting to restore global hegemony. The U.S. decided on the latter and has recognized that the former format for global primacy is no longer sustainable. The U.S. must weaken its strategic rivals, which has taken the form of an economic war against China, a proxy war using Ukrainians to fight and weaken Russia, and a regime-change war against Iran. All of these wars are failing and have only intensified the shift to a multipolar system by decoupling economically from the U.S. and collectively balancing against the U.S.

Furthermore, the legitimacy of “liberal hegemony” is collapsing. The premise that U.S. global primacy elevated liberal democratic values and stability is being undermined by lawless forever wars, genocide, regime changes, the kidnapping of state leaders, threats of eliminating entire civilizations, the stealing of sovereign funds, restrictions on freedom of navigation, endless sanctions, etc.

The U.S. must also change its relationship with its allies, as it is overextended and must cut costs and increase the return on the investment put into its empire. Restoring primacy means that frontline states must give privileged market access to the U.S. and sever their ties with China, Russia, etc. Frontline states must also shift their production and investments to the U.S., and states like Denmark should cede strategic territory. The frontline states must also pay more for their own security and use this military power to fight and weaken strategic rivals such as China, Russia, and Iran.

The weakness of the strategy is its unattainable objective. Frontline states are asked to sacrifice their national interests for the U.S., while the U.S. has a diminishing capacity to enhance their economies or security. As the Gulf States and Europeans are discovering, the U.S. alliance system invites wars rather than preventing them. This problem is also being discussed now in East Asia.

The Europeans are especially compliant, as their entire security architecture and economic model depend on the U.S. However, even the submissive Europeans must eventually adjust to new realities by diversifying their economic connectivity, reducing their warmongering posture, and shifting their focus to national interests. Failure to do so by the current political leaders creates a political legitimacy problem that will give rise to new and untested political forces that will make the required changes.

The U.S. will see its strategic rivals finding common cause in collectively balancing against the U.S., while its weakened frontline states are destabilized. With the growing costs of pursuing unipolar policies in a multipolar world, new political forces will also emerge in the U.S. that will pursue national interests by adjusting to the international distribution of power.

It is not easy for the U.S. or its allies to accept the transition from a unipolar to a multipolar world. The current political class, raised over the past 3.5 decades, was told they presided over the “end of history” and ushered in the era of perpetual peace. Fueled by ideology, they believed the Political West would dominate in perpetuity to the benefit of all mankind. That ideological fantasy lives on long after the distribution of power has changed.

The U.S. will eventually scale back its empire so the other great powers will balance each other instead of the U.S., allowing the U.S. to retreat and recover its strength. The coming economic crisis will make the situation dire, and the option now is either an organized retrenchment or a disorganized retreat. The world will naturally gravitate toward a new equilibrium and, hopefully, not destroy itself during the disorderly transition.

Diesen's sketch presents the unipolar vs multipolar processes as an overall inevitability, 'in the nature of things'. But many important aspects of fairly recent history and our present circumstance are not delved into. If some of these are included then the 'neat and tidy' processes sketched seem less inevitable and more influenced by historical quirks.

So for example, the long standing ambition of powerful banking interests to secretly dominate international and national political processes - as for example described in Quigley's Tragedy and Hope - was not an home brewed American 'unipolar' ambition, but a transnationally-based 'will to supreme power'.

The implied repudiation of the US Constitution by the establishment of the Federal Reserve in 1913, was based on the preparatory ability of powerful financial interests to dominate US political and mass media processes.

Thw public execution of JFK and de facto coup over the nominal Republic in 1963, and the censorship that still obscures that issue, signalled that an institutional matrix of power had subverted, replaced, and now controlled the nominal US republic.

But my basic point here is that the project that culminated in 'the American global hegemon/empire was never really an intrinsically American one, but the United States and its brainwashed people and power and wealth and capabilities were the visible part of and tool of a transnational global ambition that did not reflect the foundational principles or the interests or ambitions of the people of the United States.

A critical aspect of the generational processes that we the people have been subjected to has been the control over and subversion of information, mass media, and education itself: because the ambition of transnational hegemonic power was based on manipulating and deploying the public, keeping the public confused, misled, in the dark, brainwashed, disempowered, etc, To sustain illegitimate power, the lie and censorship and propaganda had to dominate the true, the forthright, the accurate, the logical, the sensible. etc. Which is the stuff of crazy world.

The current push back from China, Russia, Iran, North Korea, and Yemen is against not so much the power of the United States, but against the system of transnational political, financial and mass media control that had achieved effective control of the US.

Calling this push back 'multipolarity' is commonplace but somewhat misleading and questionable.

The processes which we are all now witnesses to and participants in can be seen as having a third potential 'great power' party, in addition to the typically posited 'great political national powers' and coalitions thereof: namely, the underlying public interest and the potential capabilities of a global public.

This 'third party' to the contest was through history a 'mere hewer of wood' and ploughman and subject to lordly power, etc. History's 'quirk' now sees these billions of commoners armed with and empowered by an array of information and capabilities - a vast new arsenal of technical means - to assert its interests.

The vital life affirming principle is that honesty is the best policy, that 2+2=4 is at basic odds with the BS that power previously was always dependent on.

Will the actual public interest now be more able to insert itself into the power struggle machinations of history?

Excellent analysis if the hegemon was the US 'State'. But it might have been but no longer is. The hegemon is a very particular subset of not only the US but also other states as well. This group of the combination of MIC, Big oil and gas, Big tech , and Big finance find themselves with the same basic strategy for growing their power and wealth. Whilst predominantly in the West , anglo and EU ( including Japan, SK, and Israel) they do include members of the same club in other nations, maybe including those that are apparently at odds with the hegemon.

Everything about Trump's seemingly bizzare behaviour is in service to this hegemonic club( the 'Epstein' club?). It is no concidence that the wealth created by the growing concentration of gas requirements around Texas, the LNG exports and the data center requirements are advantaged by the Qatar gas being removed from the global market. Its no coincidence that the EU/UK dependency on US LPG can now extract premium spot prices as Japan/SK compete for the same product. Its no concidence this accelerates the deindustrialisation of Europe and relocation to the same Texan areas. It is no concidence the the diesel and jet fuel crack spread is at record levels as the same vassal states compete for scarce resource from the Louisiana refineries making $billions. There is not a oil shortage per se, much more a 'refining' shortage.

It is no coincidence that the strains of scarce, expensive energy will increase the societal pressures and lead to the dissallusion of younger people with no future who will be even more ready to sign up for the new wars against Russia , Iran and China.

Overall its no coincidence that the same small group of people will indeed grow their power and wealth from this strategy. But the ordinary USians will not share in this bounty , they will suffer the same prices and scarcity of their fellow ordinary people in the vassals. The Epstein club is aiming to control the world 'for ever' initially using control of energy as the means, and for as long as it last the US armed forces as the tactical weapon.

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts

######## ESSAY From Unipolar Universalism to Multipolar Civilizational Distinctiveness (2026-09-26)

The following are excerpts from my speech in Istanbul on September 26, 2026.

The unipolar world order has collapsed, and we should conduct a post-mortem to reflect on what went wrong and to understand the current turbulent transition of the world. In 1989, Francis Fukuyama famously published his article on the ‘End of History,’ which was largely adopted as an ideological guide by the political West. The world only had one superpower and one ideology, and the expectation was that the world would unify under US leadership and liberal democratic values. The dominance of the US would end international anarchy and security competition, as there was only one centre of power, and the US hegemon would elevate the role of liberal democracy to form an inclusive community of universal values. For more than three decades, the West produced a new generation of politicians who believed that the collective hegemony of the West was for the benefit of all mankind, and they were the administrators who would manage the transition from the chaotic world of the past to perpetual peace. So what went wrong?

The unipolar moment was always destined to be a temporary phenomenon, as the US would predictably exhaust its resources and incentivise rising powers to collectively balance the US. However, there is also an inherent contradiction in hegemonic universalism, as universal values are linked to one entity of power. A hegemon claims to represent universal values such as freedom, democracy, and human rights, albeit this universalism is promoted through a particular historical, cultural, and geopolitical order.

Universal values advocating for equality are used to institutionalise a dominant position for the US. Universal values advocating for inclusion are used to build exclusive blocs such as NATO rather than developing an inclusive pan-European security architecture. John Herz noted as early as 1950 that the more democratic states were at home, the more they seemed to insist on a dominant position in international institutions to defend liberal values from the rule of the majority. Liberal values build on the idea that tolerance is imperative, as all people and states have different ideas about the good life and their own path to development, yet the universality of values suggests that all states must develop along the same path, and the political West, as the champion of liberal democracy, is the civilizational teacher seeking to “socialize” the rest of the world. Diplomacy between sovereign equals is replaced with the ‘civilizational teachers’ rewarding or punishing the ‘civilizational students’. The hegemon will also discipline states that does not follow its values, and also punish the states that become too powerful and thus undermine its hegemonic position. Liberalism has subsequently been promoted as a hegemonic norm.

The modern world order was established with the Peace of Westphalia in 1648, in which a hegemonic system legitimised with universalist claims was replaced with a multipolar system based on the cultural distinctiveness of states.

The past 80 years have been a historical anomaly, with a bipolar system that collapsed and gave way to a unipolar system with one centre of power. The ‘normal’ situation of the world has been a multipolar Westphalian system with a power equilibrium that accommodates the cultural distinctiveness of states.

Over the past decades, hegemonic universalism transformed European states as national competencies were transferred to the US. US military dominance meant that Europe largely outsourced its security, foreign policy and strategic thinking to the US within the format of the alliance system. US economic dominance meant that the international economic architecture, with banks, currencies, payment systems, and trade agreements, was largely administered by the US. Civil society in Europe and beyond has been managed by “non-governmental organizations” financed by the US government and cooperating closely with US intelligence services.

The European political system has increasingly been premised on the idea that loyalty to international institutions is more vital and moral than national interests, as Europe’s linkage to the US within the political West is the main source of stability and prosperity.

The hegemon is now gone, and its universal claims are rejected by the wider world. A multipolar world is already here, and the rising powers are demanding a return to a Westphalian world order of sovereign equals based on civilizational distinctiveness. As Xi Jinping insists, all civilizations have their own path to development, and no aspiring hegemon has the right to tell others how to develop.

The return of rhetoric about civilizational states across the Eurasian continent signifies a rejection of unipolarity and universalism. New institutions such as the SCO and BRICS attempt to accommodate the multipolar world, yet new members are joining faster than institutional efficiency can adjust to. Although centralisation of power, standardization and universalism is understood as undesirable.

The US has reluctantly already begun adjusting to these new realities, as it recognises it cannot be everywhere and must prioritise, while the language of liberal universalism is being replaced with national interests. This could be a positive development as states pursuing strategic interests can seek mutual understanding and compromise, while states that link strategic interests to values will see competition as a struggle between good and evil where compromise is dangerous.

New political forces are rising in the US that want to scale back the empire to save the republic, as a strategic retreat would allow the US to rebuild its strength and end the collective balancing by other great powers.

What makes Europe so dangerous today is its weakness and panic due to the failure of finding a new role in the multipolar system. Security can no longer be based on the dominance of the collective West; there is no clear economic model; and the claims of representing universal values are no longer convincing. Yet, the Europeans are not willing to recognise new realities and adjust accordingly by diversifying economic and political connectivity.

The available evidence suggests that this will be a very turbulent transition from unipolar universalism to multipolar distinctiveness, and the new world will more likely be born through war unless we see a revival of diplomacy.

Thanks Glenn. Leaders of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) member states (Iran, Turkey, China, India, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Tajikistan and

And "If you are not with us you are against us "

They declared an anti war, anti-tarrifs, anti-sanctions, international rule of law agenda. They are against the weaponization of the US dollar.

The SCO represents 40% of the world population. Nations like Cuba and Venezuela are tired of being under the US boot. Canada and Greenland don't like their sovereign nationality being threatened either.

But the SCO philosophy is: "We can all do better if we work together."

Now much of the world is learning how to live without the US and the US petrodollar. I believe it will be good for the world.

He details how US and Western Hegemony are two halves if the same Zionist Globalist World Order.

Both are supported by the Wall St. The City of London, BIS, and WHO.

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts

######## AS GUEST gdt_1  — Diesen only

Is German Militarism Coming? (Transcript)

-   July 21, 2025 4:51 amJuly 21, 2025 4:51 am

-   by Pangambam S

-   Politics (category)

[]

Read the full transcript of Norwegian writer and political activist Prof. Glenn Diesen in conversation with Judge Napolitano of Judging Freedom podcast on “Is German Militarism Coming?”, July 15, 2025.

Trump’s New Ukraine Strategy: CIA-NATO Weapons Pipeline

Well, there are many different interpretations of what Trump is doing. Some suggest that he wants to scale back the empire. Others, including myself, believe that he’s seeking more return on investment.

So if he can continue to weaken Russia and keep the Europeans loyal while the Europeans are paying the United States as opposed to the US providing security for free, then that would be preferable. There are also some differences in terms of wondering if Trump is being extremely belligerent, either to keep the hawks within Washington quiet or if Trump indeed is on the side of the hawks.

My impression, because I’ve been a little bit on the fence, but it appears to me that Trump is very much aligned with the hawks on this one. And there seems to be a common thread here, that is whatever America First used to mean at the moment, it means depopulating Gaza, bombing Iran, continuing the Biden war on Russia, and also preparing allies for possible war on China. So that’s my impression.

Yeah. It’s reported that Trump asked Zelensky if they can strike Moscow so Putin would feel the pain. Again, this very much sounds like it’s Trump’s war at the moment.

The Nuclear Risk of Escalation

It could mean exactly this. And again, this is the huge pivot that he’s taken. Remember that at the beginning of his presidency, Pete Hegseth came out and said that to end the war, Ukraine had to be neutral. There wouldn’t be any American security guarantees, and there would have to be territorial concessions on behalf of Ukraine.

The whole premise was a recognition that it was NATO expansionism that had triggered the war. And then Trump said this was Biden’s war because they were the ones pushing NATO expansion.

Well, what has happened now? We see the NATO Secretary General, Mark Rutte, arguing that nothing has changed, Ukraine is still destined for NATO membership. And Trump has no comments whatsoever on this. So whatever he was pushing in the past, it doesn’t appear that this is the case anymore. Unless he’s playing some four-dimensional chess, which is difficult to interpret.

And this is, as you said, Russian history. With the exception of the Mongols, all of Russia’s most devastating invasions have come from the west. The Poles, the French, the Germans and of course having an entire Cold War with NATO nuclear weapons aimed at it.

For the past 30 years, the main security concern of Russia, something that has united the entire political sphere from the left to the right, has been the concern of NATO expansionism, that it will be encircled by NATO bases, something that the west has acknowledged. And they see this as an existential threat, which means they’re prepared to fight till the end.

So whatever the Americans and Europeans are planning, hoping to possibly engage Russia in a direct war, there’s no defeating Russia here. It’s the world’s largest nuclear power. It sees this as a threat to its existence. If the west is able to accrue sufficient conventional capabilities to defeat Russia, then it’s my belief that Russia would lean into using nuclear weapons as an equalizer because it can’t lose this.

It would be as if the Russians were pushing regime change in Mexico, placed its military missiles there to strike inside the US. And a compromise would have to be a ceasefire which would allow the Russian missiles to remain in Mexico. It would never happen. So it’s a very strange path we’re taking and there’s no real discussion about this. It’s all whether or not Putin is bad or not.

So far not. But this could be coming.

Well, neither is Georgia, but geography doesn’t matter as much anymore and NATO is continuously expressing the intention of going global. So we moved very far away from the era of the Cold War when NATO was a status quo defensive alliance.

Now it’s an expansionist alliance which goes to war against countries which haven’t threatened it. So Yugoslavia, Libya and now fighting Russia in Ukraine because however we want to portray this war, it’s not a war between primarily Ukraine and Russia. It’s between NATO and Russia. And we’re merely using Ukrainians as human resources and territory to fight this war.

The Neocon Influence on Trump

Well, it does appear so. From his language, he’s more or less becoming indistinguishable from Lindsey Graham. And this is very strange because Trump, I think it was in a podcast with Joe Rogan, he recognized that his first administration had been hampered by the neocons. Bolton, all these were blamed. But now, of course, he has done exactly the same thing again.

Well, they’re all pretty much pursuing the same neocon objective, which is that American security has to depend on hegemony, and that hegemony comes through military dominance and the use of military force. I don’t see how this essence has really changed. So no, I don’t see the biggest differences.

Of course, Bolton has become recognized as extremely hawkish, but I still haven’t seen a war that Lindsey Graham didn’t like.

But if I can add one thing, if I remember back in 2003, the neocons in the US were very much despised across Europe as the United States was preparing for the invasion of Iraq. These days, the neocons are seen as saviors because the early rhetoric of Trump suggested he wanted to end the war in Ukraine, which created panic across Europe.

Now, the more hawkish, the better. If America will go into a direct war with Russia, that just means America’s devoted to this war. So this has become the new Europe. So Bolton, Lindsey Graham, these are now no longer people who create a lot of concern in Europe.

The Financial Reality of the New Strategy

That’s the new division of labor. The United States will not donate any more weapons to Ukraine, but they will sell it to the Europeans so they can use it and send it to Ukraine. However, there’s a problem in this plan. The Europeans don’t really have the money to buy the weapons, which the Americans don’t really have to sell. And the Ukrainians don’t have the manpower to actually fight with these weapons.

No, probably not. And you can’t just rebuild an entire army this quickly either. And this is the problem. But if you were to achieve this, what you would need is a ceasefire. Under a ceasefire, the Ukrainians would have time to recruit, which they call recruit, but that means snatching people off the street to fill the ranks.

Europeans would have time to either accrue the money or ramp up military production, and Americans as well. So the only way they can continue the war at the intensity which is coming now would be first to have a ceasefire.

And this is one of the reasons why it’s very difficult to convince the Russians that we’re genuine in pursuing peace when all we’re asking for is a ceasefire, but refuse to discuss an actual political settlement.

Trump’s Misunderstanding of Russian Psychology

No. And I think a lot of whatever trust or hope they had in Trump appears to be going away rather quickly. I think the attack on Iran also increased the concern significantly in Moscow, because in this instance as well, Trump was reassuring everyone that negotiations were moving fast forward even as he was preparing a sneak attack on Iran.

Much like what happened with the attack on the Russian nuclear bombers, that is the nuclear deterrent of Russia, we saw that the drones were smuggled into the country to then launch them at shorter range distances. Then we saw the exact same thing happening in Iran. So I think there’s a lot of distrust happening.

And even if they would trust Trump, which they don’t, then he can change his mind in 20 minutes or he goes away and another administration comes in. So this idea that it’s all personal, if he has a nice talk with Putin, compliment him a little bit, then somehow Putin’s going to push a vital national security interest aside, it’s not going to happen.

Especially if you take into account what Putin often commented in the past, which is that a lot of American presidents come in with high ambitions in terms of changing relations with countries such as Russia. But shortly thereafter, they’re told that this is not going to be the case after all. And they essentially all fall in line with the permanent bureaucracy, or the deep state, as it is often referred to.

Putin’s Insight on American Presidents

Well, this is what was referred to as the military industrial complex gaining too much influence over politics. It’s done this through direct lobbying. It’s also through the think tanks, which are essentially creating the knowledge which the politicians base their decisions on. Even the think tanks have the people on their payroll who then later go into government.

George Kennan made an interesting comment, I think was in 1987, in which he wrote, “If the Soviet Union would sink into the sea tomorrow, America would need to find a new enemy very quickly because the military industrial complex has taken such a key position in the American political system.”

I think that’s very fair. The United States has made it clear it wants the Europeans to take leadership in terms of confronting and fighting Russia. And Germany has answered that call. They seem to envision a leading role for themselves to counter Russia in Europe.

Again, it’s a very strange development given that throughout the Cold War they were more focused on restoring peace through mutual understanding and cooperation. But now they become one of the most hawkish countries in Europe.

Comparing Chancellor Merz to Historical German Leadership

Well, I haven’t heard any German chancellors speak in this manner since Hitler. The way he’s talking about confronting Russia – he’s arguing that Russia’s unprovoked invasion of Ukraine is an attack on all of Europe and that they will continue this fight against Russia.

He used to also advocate for Taurus missiles, that is for German missiles to be used to strike deep inside Russia. So I share that sentiment. If there’s someone worse than him preceding him, I would like to know who exactly that would be.

All restraint has been thrown away. The whole post-World War II transformation of Germany, in my opinion, has been reversed. It had a very militaristic view. It was very antagonistic towards Russia. Then after the war, it became this peaceful country, always choosing peace over military solutions. All of this appears to be gone now, at least among the leadership, but the people seem to more or less blindly follow. All of this seems oddly familiar.

Pressure for Russian Retaliation Against Germany

Yes, there is. They always had this dilemma between – do they retaliate against NATO for what is becoming increasingly direct attacks on Russia? If they do so, then they risk World War III. If they don’t do it, they will embolden NATO to go further.

Given that Germany is now positioning itself as the leading power against Russia and also it’s not a nuclear power, it does present itself as a good target.

I actually used to work in Russia as a professor at the Higher School of Economics. The head of my department there was Professor Sergey Karaganov. He was an advisor to everyone from Brezhnev, Gorbachev, Yeltsin and then Putin. He’s also been pushing for this, that Russia now has to take a stand and actually strike German production facilities.

Not necessarily go to war with Germany, but what the Germans have done in terms of killing Russians by far outweighs any strike on any German production facilities. This is something I’m sure the Russians are considering. From what I understand, there hasn’t been any decisions to actually do this, but I do think it’s an option as Germany continues to escalate this war.

Trump’s 50-Day Ultimatum and Russian Response

Well, it’s hard to say. Trump could walk this back next week already. There’s been too many bluffs. I think he seems to have outspent this coercive language, the effectiveness of it, because he uses these threats. Some countries fold, others reject it and then he just walks it back. So I’m not sure if they take it that seriously.

But also, even if they did, what exactly are they expected to do? There’s no peace proposal on the table. There’s only capitulation or actually they ask for ceasefire. But as I said before, the ceasefires were openly referred to by the Europeans as a temporary pause – that is the ability to ramp up industrial production, rearm Ukraine and retrain soldiers which can be recruited.

This is seen as something that will prolong the war. They’re not going to do this. They see this as capitulation and they see it this way for very good reason because Europeans very much confirmed that it is.

Trump’s Confusing Statements on Arms Shipments

Well, as you said, I’m not a psychologist, but the back and forth – I don’t think truth is guiding his statements that much. I think it’s more what he wants to communicate. First, of course, arguing that the pause is not his fault, so he says he doesn’t know about it. But then once that is framed in a way that makes him sound incompetent – how can he not know that this is going on in your own administration – then suddenly he switched around and he knew everything.

It’s just narrative building effectively. What storyline are you trying to sell?

But you’re correct. It doesn’t really matter at this point anymore. I think Trump will continue to sell weapons to the Europeans. This can still be sold to the public as some kind of America First given that they’re killing Russians but with weapons that have been paid for by the Europeans. But at the end of the day, it left the stockpiles.

I don’t think it’s going to matter to that great of an extent and it’s not going to deter the Russians either. If anything, this kind of revealed the belligerence of the Trump administration and the belief that whatever peace agreement they might be able to negotiate, how endurable would it actually be? Would the United States and the Europeans actually abide by it? It’s problematic on many levels.

Thank you, Judge and have a nice holiday.

######## AS GUEST gdt_2  — Diesen only

US Attacks Yemen, For What?

-   March 27, 2025 4:46 amMarch 27, 2025 4:55 am

-   by Pangambam S

-   Politics (category)

[]

Read the full transcript of a conversation between Judge Andrew Napolitano and Norwegian political scientist Prof. Glenn Diesen on Judging Freedom Podcast titled “US Attacks Yemen, For What?” premiered March 26, 2025.

Well, I wouldn’t say there’s a lot of evidence supporting that. Indeed, I think it was quite clear from some of these text messages which came out in a very embarrassing way that people like JD Vance was critical of it. I think he called it a mistake. And indeed, it really did make the question what the purpose was and also to what extent is actually successful.

Now, I think that the purpose was obvious in terms of attempting to open the sea lanes, but the extent to which that is actually possible is a different question. And it also puts the United States right back into one of Israel’s wars. Given that this is a conflict which is not in America’s interest, and also knowing that Israel would like to pull America into one of its wars, I would say, no, it’s not in America’s interest at all.

Trump’s Peace Promises vs. Reality

Well, in Ukraine, it makes sense to pull a military support intelligence right away because they are in the middle of negotiations. So they don’t want to give up an important hand because there’s not much leverage anymore. That is that the Russians have won this war.

It’s not much if they give up supplying the weapons, then not only do they lose an important bargaining card with the Russians, but also a key point of pressure for the Ukrainians. Keep in mind that Zelensky is quite reluctant to make any real compromises. So I think it’s quite important that he continues to have this card.

But I agree he was voted in for being a peace president. He was going to end the forever war. To call for ethnic cleansing of every man, woman and child in Gaza, or even now actually bombing Yemen, I think this is something that will disappoint many of his voters.

And it’s even worth noticing that from these leaked calls, it was quite evident that there were some of them which belonged to the America First club, such as Vance, who saw this as a European problem. But there’s still neocons there, so they’re driving not all in the same lane, it seems.

America First vs. Neocon Influence

Well, unfortunately, it does appear that a lot of evidence coming in to suggest that one should be skeptical about the ability of Trump to actually follow through on what he said. Again, this is, I think it’s distinctively different though from the different presidents. But that being said, this is a common trend.

That is, Clinton, he was going to be the president after the Cold War to bring about some peace, but he ended up starting this nation building. Then the American people voted for Bush, which was going to, he was criticizing the nation building of Clinton, and then he took it on a much greater level in Afghanistan, in Iraq. He had people voting for Obama because he was going to offer change.

Then they voted for Biden because he was going to bring the adults back. And instead, he almost took America to war with Russia. So I think time and time again, people tend to vote in America for reducing or ending the wars, but they rarely get what they want.

So I think this is a good indication that there’s a very strong neocon element within the US. And I think this is very problematic because the main issue for the United States, if it does recognize that the unipolar order is over, that is, it should then stop wasting too many resources as it might run into some real economic problems. And it should take a more modest position in the international system, because if it attempts to be all powerful, that is, reestablish a unipolar order, then all the other major powers in the international system will try to balance the United States.

So a lot of what Trump said seemed to make a lot of sense. But we have to question why the policies aren’t actually reflecting what he said.

Democracy and Foreign Policy

Well, it is always a bit of a difference when you look at the American leaders and the relationship with Israel. But it also goes back to what you said about them banning democracy, or as Galloway said, because I think a lot of the democratic institutions have been hollowed out.

That is, we still have the rituals. Everyone can go and vote. But while one can change the people in power, there’s often less and less ability to actually change the policies.

So I don’t doubt that a lot of the people who genuinely believe in the platform they’re running on, but once they come into power, I think there’s a recognition that they have to adjust to the actual power structures. Now, Netanyahu, I think, obviously, gets much more loyalty from the United States. So whenever you see Netanyahu around Trump, you do question what happened to America first.

Now, I’m not sure if Trump would like to also reconsider America’s close relationship with Israel to the extent it doesn’t serve American interests. Maybe it’s something he wants to do, but it would be too bold to take on the entire Israeli lobby at the same time as he’s trying to do a huge gift with Russia. Again, it’s a possibility.

Or he might just be very much beholden to Netanyahu, like others.

Is Israel Safer?

No, and I think that’s why often we get into this difficult dichotomy of either support Israel or before Israel or against it. But really, this is not good for Israel either. You see, domestically, it’s becoming very, very divided. Society itself can fragment.

We see the army being very much exhausted. Indeed, one of the reasons why they accept the ceasefire is because the army has been overstretched. That is, they bogged down in Gaza. They have exhausted themselves against Hezbollah. Now they have the additional occupation of Syria. And if you see this issue with Yemen, this is not a recipe for success either.

That is, they can’t really hit the weapons which are underground. Indeed, the missiles and drones which they use tend to be a lot cheaper, which means that they can exhaust the American ones. And I’m not sure exactly what can be achieved.

And all of this appears to only be building up to the big war which they’re working themselves up to and trying to bring the Americans in, which is against Iran, which would just be a complete disaster. So I think Israel is on a very dangerous path, a very suicidal path. And again, I would caution the Americans not to go down with the Israelis.

Indeed, as a good friend, one should try to steer them away from this dangerous path.

Gaza Death Toll

Well, I think that all this killing has sadly become normalized. It’s just this news come out every day. But within the European Union, it appears that all of the violence, which all of the women, indeed, the EU leadership, as well as the German leadership, tends to be very supportive of Israel.

And again, I don’t see how this impacts any of that solidarity. So it is, yeah, no, it’s truly horrific, horrific numbers.

Zionist Influence in Europe

Well, it is an interesting group because, well, not all Zionists are Jews. Indeed, there’s a lot of Zionists among the Christians as well. And again, you also see that a lot of the people who oppose and criticize Israel are Jewish as well. So I think they fall most in the Zionist camp. But if you want to look at the donor class, it’s quite huge in Brussels. It’s become a very concerning trend.

But over many, many years now, which is that you have the lobbyist more or less penetrating the EU structures. The Germans are a bit interesting, though, because they have their history. And because of this, it appears that the way of making amends for the Holocaust is by allowing Israel to do whatever it wants and support it, which is a very strange thing because it’s effectively the Palestinians now have to pay for the crimes of the Germans in World War II. So it’s quite remarkable.

The Signal Scandal

Yeah, no, it is. Well, it did take the media, but a little bit by storm. The angling is, of course, usually aimed at presenting the Trump administration as incompetent because, as you know, the European political class is very much, well, almost a copy paste of the Democrats. So they don’t care much for Trump.

Indeed, they don’t care much for the Republicans. So they tend to be a little bit gleeful as this happened. Of course, it’s not a good look at all. Not only how they actually had the war plans when they said they didn’t. Again, the legal issues, as a judge, he would be much better at addressing this than me. But I think it is maybe a little bit of this cowboy feeling to it that it’s not done quite professionally.

And again, I think some of the criticism is fair because I think Trump put together a team such as Hegseth, which doesn’t necessarily have the right background or the sufficient experience.

Congressional Testimony

Oh, this is a huge embarrassment. And it’s also coming from the U.S. leadership. This is the largest army in the world. You would have thought there would be some more professionalism here.

I’m not sure how this is going to play out. But again, this is not just a massive embarrassment. Trump has a knack for getting out of scandals. But overall, given how this was done, and all of the political capital which Trump has put into this, given that he was supposed to be the peace president, and now he’s using this very aggressive language to destroy Yemen or the Houthis, and obviously, he’s not going to be able to deliver on the massive threats he made, because this simply won’t work on them. They have been bombed since 2015.

I think this idea that he can just use very brutal language, and then somehow the Houthis will be fearful and bend to his will, I think this is a huge mistake.

And it can also get not just dragged into Yemen, but dragged in closer to war with Iran. And on top of it, what we’re seeing now with this, I guess, poor execution with them essentially texting each other and adding one of the journalists, which don’t even like them, who leaks these things.

Now they have also been caught lying to the public. So it’s an unmitigated disaster. So again, one has to see if Trump is able to get out of this one as well.

Potential War with Iran

That would be hard to predict. Iran can shut down important waterways. It can make energy prices go through the roof.

Indeed, if the US and Israel would attack Iran, they would probably use the airspace of different Arab states, like Saudi Arabia, which would then get retaliatory strikes as well. So there would be massive disruptions. And that’s just if they’re able to contain it to Iran.

And also, there’s no clear exit strategy. They’re not going to be able to defeat Iran. So how are they just going to bomb Iran and tell Iran when they’re done? No, I think Iran would hit back in a massive way. So they would set a dangerous precedent.

And also, keep in mind that Iran’s becoming very deeply integrated into more Eurasian, also BRICS economic system. So the Chinese and Russians, I don’t think, would want to sit around and do nothing. So I think it would be an absolute disaster for Trump to go down this path now, especially at this point in time when he’s trying to bring peace to Europe.

And on this, I commend him. And if he’s pulling it off, I hope he gets the Nobel Peace Prize. But what he’s doing now in the Middle East is beyond reckless.

And as we saw from these videos, it also appears to be done by amateurs. This is no way to run an operation.

Zionism and U.S. Politics

Yeah, well, Zionism could be fine if it’s a Jewish nation state. But if that Jewish nation state would be full of Jews, it would be one thing. But the problem is when the Zionist state denies a separate Palestinian state. Because if Israel will now be a Jewish nation state in which it then encompasses greater Israel, that means half the population will be non-Jewish.

How are you going to have a Jewish nation state if half the population is not Jewish? Well, then you either have to have them live under apartheid rules, such as they do in the West Bank. Or you’re going to have to ethnically cleanse or genocide a large part of it, which is what you’re seeing in Gaza. I think this is the danger of Zionism.

Again, when they say Israel has a right to exist. Yes, but if they don’t accept that same right for Palestine, then there’s not many more options. No one really explained to me what the alternative is. If you’re going to have only half the population being Jews because you deny a Palestinian state, what is the alternative to either apartheid or ethnic cleansing? I don’t really see what the option, what the alternative would be.

Thank you, Judge. Of course.

######## AS GUEST gdt_3  — Diesen only

Thanks, Pascal.

Well, I agree with you, though. I think that the significance, that there’s a huge significance behind this, because if you look at the actual format for, or the discussions we had about Russian security over the past 35 years, there hasn’t been any since the 1990s.

European security entailed integrating the entire continent with the exception of the largest country in Europe. So this is, I think, the source of everything. That is we canceled all agreements for common security based on invisible security in favor of a hegemonic peace which manifests itself through NATO expansion.

And as many predicted back then, this is what would cause conflicts in the future. It kind of makes sense. It would be easy to explain to a child, while the idea of a Cold War military alliance expanding closer and closer to Russian borders and ensuring that it doesn’t have a seat at the table in Europe, that this is somehow the recipe for peace and stability.

But anyways, what I want to get to was for more than 20 years, we refused to discuss Russia’s seat at table in Europe, we didn’t want to discuss their security concerns. Indeed, the whole ideology we built Europe around was that the EU, NATO would be a force for good. So, yes, you might not be part of this club. We might put our military along your borders, your missiles, but this is a source of stability and democracy. So it didn’t make it possible to discuss what Russia wanted.

And of course, took us up to 2014. We could topple the government in Ukraine. But also this is good for democracy and stability. We had fake solutions from. You can already argue from 2015 with the Minsk agreement. This goes up to 2022, the Russians invade. We had three years of no diplomacy at all, not talking to the Russians.

And if you live in Europe and you try to discuss European security architecture, or, sorry, the European security architecture, Russian security concerns, you’ll be crucified. This is almost treason. This is what Russia says. You’re repeating Kremlin talking points.

The Root Causes Beyond Ukraine

So now, you know, the unipolar system has moved to this point where Ukraine was really, you know, the main thing that actually took us now to a hot war. And now that Russia has won this, what we have to discuss is how to resolve the wider problem in Europe. How do we return to some of the things we should have discussed 30 years ago? Again, the principle of indivisible security, you know, stability on the continent.

But we’re not. Instead, you know, some people want to dismiss this as, “oh, we just make them stop shooting at each other. We have a ceasefire.” You know, once a ceasefire in place, we can push in some European troops and, you know, rebuild Ukraine and then there will stability again. So they want to go back to the old format of this hegemonic peace, but the Russians won’t have anything of it.

So, yeah, I think this is where we are. We’re at this point where we, first, we have to be able to identify how we ended up in this conflict in order to assess the possible solutions to actually resolve it. And this isn’t going to be done overnight.

And as you said, to have the President of Russia and United States meeting on the border in Alaska, even though they’re fighting almost a direct war now, and not even proxy war, is a huge achievement. But it doesn’t mean that an agreement can be whipped out this quickly because, yeah, as I always point out, the Ukraine is not the source of tensions between the US and Russia. It’s the product.

This is a consequence of a broken European security architecture. So if you want to solve Ukraine, you have to solve other issues as well. That is the entire European security architecture. You’re going to have to end NATO expansion. If you end NATO expansion, what happens to the transatlantic partnership?

Does it lose its whole function? Will the Americans leave Europe? Will they go to Asia? I mean, there’s a lot riding on this, which is why people are panicking like crazy in Europe.

So. No, sorry, that was a very long answer. But I think it’s important that people appreciate this is not just a territorial territory, territory swap. You know, “we’ll give you some of Dnipro in return for Donbas.” This is not the only issue.

Europe’s Self-Marginalization

That’s a great question, and I think it doesn’t really have that many rational answers. Indeed, if you look at Europeans’ statements from the European leaders in the early 90s, a key concern coming especially from countries like France, was there’s too much power concentrated in the United States. We need more strong Europe in order to balance some of this hegemonic ambition, so again, restore some balance.

But then gradually they kind of began to submit. There’s, I guess, many reasons for this. One of them is the role that Europe would have in this hegemonic order. That is, if you have a strong Europe and powerful United States, then you can have a collective hegemony of the world standing on two legs, the US-EU. So the Europeans go then to essentially having the ambition to share this unipolar moment with the Americans have a very privileged position.

Now, you can also look at manipulation. I had spoken to Colonel Wilkerson many times. He was the chief of staff to Colin Powell, and he talks about how they were in the White House. They set up this big whiteboard with all the names of the European politicians, and they say, “Who will do as they’re told, who will not do as they’re told, and which one do we elevate? Who do we push down in order to build the European governments, which we want?”

And interestingly enough, he pointed out that the biggest, the one who will bow to everything we tell them to do is a Norwegian politician, Jens Stoltenberg. He’s the prime minister, and he ended up as NATO Secretary General. So it is interesting, some of this, the American manipulation, but beyond this as well. I think the Europeans kind of transitioned a bit into this.

The 2008 NATO Expansion Pushback

But still, if you go to 2008, when the Bush want to expand NATO to Ukraine and Georgia, the Europeans were pushing back. They realized, as Merkel said, that this would be interpreted as a declaration of war by Moscow. Everyone recognized this was a step too far. It’s the CIA Director, Robert Gates. No, Gates. Yeah, well, Robert Gates has said this was one step too far. Like this would lead, predictably lead to conflict. But you’re right. CIA Director Bill Burns said the same thing. This will create a war. So this is not a controversial thing.

But, you know, I think they got roped into this, the Europeans, because this is salami tactics. Gradually, you know, you push, okay, just let’s push a little bit more, a little bit more. And, you know, instead of taking all of Ukraine into NATO, now we’ll do de facto. You know, we’ll do one. They become de facto members. We slowly integrate their economy away from Russia towards us. We begin to have security cooperation. We disentangle the whole common culture. Get the Russian Orthodox Church out of Ukraine, get rid of the Russian language, and slowly we’ll bring them in.

This is NATO tactics, by the way, the salami tactics. You don’t evoke that fierce of response. But then when the Russians begin to respond, you begin to cultivate a new political class, which is, “Oh, the Russians are evil. They’re bad. They want to restore empire. They want to have the Russian empire. Putin is Hitler.”

And then this is how you create a political community as well. I often compare it to the Prussian versus the Germans versus the France in 1870. Once the French invade the Germans, all these different German states come together. And this is when you create a common national identity. In 1871, you have a German unification when all the German states become Germany, as we know today. So I think this is the way they went.

Europe’s Complete Subordination

And now, of course, if you talk about what the European leaders themselves said only a few years ago about this being very provocative and can start a war, they will call it Russian disinformation. You can quote same people, they will denounce this statement. So I think this was gradual and now, of course, they’re in this position.

And yeah, when you have this much insecurity, you have a huge war in Ukraine. There’s legitimate security concerns. And what is security in Europe? Well, that’s America. So now you completely dependent on America and the US can convert this security dependence into political loyalties, economic loyalties. The Europeans have to cut themselves off Russia, they cut themselves off China. Now Besant says, you know, Europe has to either put up or shut up. That means you also have to cut yourself off a little bit of the Indians because you have to put pressure on them.

So at the end of the day, America will be the only game in town. So Europe are now completely, yeah, total subordinated. This is. We are vassals now. This is. Even Macron recognized this. We’re not the proper independent states anymore. So I think we’re doing things against our own interest. You can have American presidents standing next to the German chancellor are saying, “Yeah, yeah, well, you know, we might blow up your pipeline or, you know, this will be no more.” And there’s this, no, there’s just no pushback.

And so it’s a very dangerous situation. And as I said, if the United States, if the war ends, that could be even worse for the Europeans. Now this Danish prime minister said this peace now, peace might be worse than war. Now, she didn’t really elaborate that much, just, you know, this will be insecurity across Europe. But what happens if the war ends is Russia will no longer be contained and Americans will begin to pull away. So if there’s no conflict, there is no balancing of Russia. So it’s better to keep the conflict going.

Even the German intelligence chief said the same thing. We need to keep the war going for another five years to prepare ourselves. You know, the Ukrainians, they hear this, by the way, and they becoming more and more aware that they’re being used.

Europe’s Strategic Vacuum

But the Europeans really put themselves in a very, very awkward position. And as I began to say earlier, in the unipolar order, the Europeans will be one of the two legs of the collective Hegemon in the multipolar world, what is Europe? The Americans don’t want to be there anymore to the same extent they want to focus on Asia. The Russians don’t want anything more to do with them economically. They’re weakened security wise of course they’re still living with the consequences now of the NATO expansion.

They’re going to have more and more fragmentations within as the economies go south. They’re going to have socio economic disruptions, political instability. Many of the political leadership isn’t really legitimate anymore. At least I argue that we have a legitimacy crisis in the political class. The Starmers, Macrons, Merts, they don’t have a public support.

So this massive crisis coming to Europe and the only thing they’re holding onto is well, if we just keep this war going, the Americans will stay, the Russians will be contained, maybe something can be worked out in the future. And it’s desperation, It’s a strategic vacuum. This is why the Europeans have no plans. They don’t propose anything. All they say is more of the same. Putin is Hitler, more weapons. The only strategy is to get Trump, make him into Biden 2.0 and this is it.

That’s not a solution. It’s just, yeah, a lack of political imagination and we keep digging a deeper and deeper hole and yeah, there’s no way to get out of this. So I’m extremely pessimistic about Europe and Ukraine by the way. I think the two big losers in this war will be these two. Well, they’re not countries but yeah, Ukraine and Europe.

So again I have too long answer to your question.

European Posturing and Ideological Delusion

Very much so, but I often struggle with the same problem. Do people believe what they’re actually saying or they just faking it, creating narratives? And it’s hard to say. If they just have wrong policies, it would be one thing, wrong ideas. But they need to stifle all dissent and any counter argument. This makes me more suspicious that this is not stupidity, but belligerence.

But I think there’s something in human nature though, that is we often assume that human beings are very rational, but really they’re not. We are group animal. We tend to adjust to the group. I mean, it makes sense. If you’re in Switzerland, Japan, England, there tends to be national consensus forming. We do this often. Naturally we adjust to the group.

And I think for the past, well, not just this past three years, not even the past 11 years, but for a very long time we’ve been fed the same idea that, you know, we are fighting for something good for, you know, either civilization, liberal democracy. The Russians are only after something, you know, evil empire. You know, they’re the exact opposite of us. So once you do this long enough, there’s yeah, I think people might just dismiss all information, which it doesn’t fit the narrative without thinking about it to too much of an extent.

But it is hard. I think ideology, as you said, is a big component of this because after the Cold War, we have this. Fukuyama’s end of history almost became truism, a religion that became the source of our identities being a force for good. That is, yes, we’ll dominate the world and this will be the source of peace, essentially end the Westphalian international anarchy. It will be one central power, but we’ll use it to elevate liberal values and democracy and this will be peace.

Anyone who opposes this, no matter how bad or what evil things the United States or NATO might do, it’s nothing in comparison. This is the foundation of stability. And now, of course, this falling apart, I think people are willing to say anything to prevent it.

Europe’s Irrational Peace Demands

And yeah, so I think now the whole rug below the feet of the Europeans has been pulled away. And if you listen to the Europeans and look what they say, what they want of a peace agreement, not only do they say they want 500 billion to a trillion in reparation, Russia has to walk, get out, give everything back. Ukraine should be allowed to join NATO. So essentially they want Russia’s victory to be translated into full capitulation, which makes no sense.

But you also hear the. They say, you know, in any peace agreement, the sanction has to be maintained against Russia. Zelensky says same, whatever peace agreement, we can’t give up on the punishment. So that’s not peace. This is just, you know, let’s take away the leverage of the Russians and let’s continue to hammer them. So this will be temporary.

So I don’t know. I don’t. Of all places in the world, I usually. I can understand many things. I can understand why Iran might want a nuclear weapon. I can understand why the Russians felt it was necessary to invade. I might not agree with any of these things, but I can understand it. But the European policies these days, it’s just. For me, it is completely irrational. It doesn’t make any sense. Simply because what the same people said a few years ago is now Russian propaganda.

So it’s. No, it’s very frustrating. And I can tell you personal experience being academic in Europe now, it’s ridiculous. You can only repeat what your government say about war. I mean, other areas, you know, democracy is not dead. But on the security issue, on foreign policy, there is no dissent permitted anymore. Either you repeat it or you’re essentially speaking on behalf of the enemy.

The Personal Cost of Dissent

Oh yeah. Well, I dropped out of politics because it’s not possible. Because I found out you’re not allowed to discuss your opponents. So all you can do is talk in these slogans and otherwise they go after you.

But no, actually I had a weird experience two, three days ago because we have elections soon and I couldn’t get off the parliament list. I tried, but it’s not possible. They changed the laws for some reason. So they came for one last go after me.

They actually wrote an article which went across all the major papers. They looked at a conference I was in April of 2024. It was the 300th anniversary of Immanuel Kant. It was a philosophy conference. I posted my speech and everything. I just talk about individualism, the possibility for the durability of secular morality, these kind of things which you would at a philosophy conference for 300 year anniversary. This was his hometown, Kaliningrad.

Yeah, it was Königsberg. But now this is like the adopted son of Russia. It’s quite fascinating. You go there, it was like a nerd fest, just posters of Kant everywhere. And this is always spoke about.

And then suddenly, a year and a half after, they made up in their minds that because they had a list of people, foreign guests invited and they said, “Well, this is a list now of foreign agents.” So suddenly I’m an influence operation. Because they listed in some of their documents that they’d like to have closer ties with Western academics and all the understanding. So this is interpreted as a hybrid war now. But this is the point of all conferences, isn’t it?

So me talking about liberalism and Kant suddenly made me an agent of Russia. I don’t want to go on about this. It’s just it shows how fanatic and radical it’s become. And this is what happens. There is no discussion if you put forth, “Well, actually, NATO expansion provokes security concerns in Russia. They see it as an existential threat.” You don’t have to agree, but the only answer can’t be, “Well, that makes you a Putinist, an agent of Russia.” It’s so absurd. But this is where we are.

Europe’s Ideological Capture

Well, I think it can both be positive and negative. The negative is that there has to be a counter reaction. Whenever something, if there’s some efforts to humanize the opponent, make them seem rational, which you kind of have to address the rational demands if you’re negotiating, there will be a counter reaction where you feel, “Well, we can’t normalize this now.” In the next few days we’re going to have to have every media headline being about how evil Russia is to try to make up for the conference, the summit.

But overall I think it can be helpful because if you want peace, there has to be some change in the narrative because once you go to war like we did against Russia, you have to always present everything as good versus evil, because in this instance, you can’t negotiate. You only have peace that’s appeasement. You only have peace when you defeat the opponent.

And Arestovich, again, the advisor of Zelensky, former advisor, he was making this point as well, that they’ve had this huge propaganda machine. He compared it to a huge tanker. And they’ve just been steaming forward. And now that they’re losing the war, they can’t pretend they’re winning. They have to say Russia will destroy all Ukrainians, this kind of propaganda that they need time to steer this around and change the narrative because you can’t suddenly say you want negotiation with Russia after everything else, the narrative you’ve been building up.

So I think the same applies for Europe, but there’s been some developments. I mean, I remember saying that Russia’s winning was Russian propaganda. I remember saying Zelensky was authoritarian was Russian propaganda. All of this is now becoming acceptable in Western media. High casualty rates in Ukraine, they still want to pretend as if Russia is higher. But the abduction of all these Ukrainians off the streets to send them into the trenches without proper training, this is also now acceptable.

And I’ve also seen some news articles, for example in Politico, where they say, “Well, listen, maybe you can take NATO expansion off the table if they can join the EU.” And that’s a reasonable argument to make. But then you have to recognize if you want to look for solutions, you have to recognize that NATO is the source of this problem.

So now they apparently will soon be allowed to discuss that. Possibly, yes, expanding NATO towards Russia, which the Russians have been saying for the past 35 years is unacceptable. We can be allowed to discuss this as well. So step by step, I do think that having this kind of diplomacy where we actually are allowed to talk to the opponent, that this is positive.

People don’t realize how radical this has been. Three and a half years, the EU has refused to even talk to Russia. They don’t want to sit down with the Russians. As the foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas says, “Oh, Putin is a war criminal. Why would we talk to a war criminal?” And this has become mainstream. I had people send me comments on my social media, like military leaders or ambassadors stationed in NATO, saying, “Well, what do you mean, diplomacy? You can’t talk to Russia. They’re the aggressors.”

How can you say these things? And it’s become normalized. So I think that all of this helps to again, talk to the opponent, realize, “Oh, these are actual countries with national security interests.” We don’t have to agree with everything they’re saying. But we do have to take it into account if we want peace.

So everything has a purpose. And I think overall, I think this was not that much was probably achieved, but this is a good start of a long political process where we again, after 35 years begin to speak about the security concerns of our opponents. It’s going to be a very long path, but at least this is an important step.

Defining Our Historical Moment

Yeah, that’s a good question. I also hate these concepts like post Cold War because it doesn’t encapsulate anything. It just tells you what’s no longer here. It’s like a post war era. It’s like, okay, well it’s. Yeah, it’s not the Cold War anymore, it’s post Cold War. But you have to define what this era was known for.

I think I usually lean on the unipolar moment because this is what Charles Krauthammer and others defined it as. Such a very unique period in history where because since 1648 we had the Westphalian system, we recognized there couldn’t be one dominant state in Europe. So instead we created a security system based on the sovereign state, but with a balance of power.

And in this balance of power, the whole point is to make sure one side doesn’t seek to dominate. But this isn’t all have to be confrontational all the time. It also includes having to recognize the security concern of others in order to mitigate it.

Now, this being said, I think after the Cold War, the Americans will not think, they said very openly, “We’re in a very unique position now. For the first time, there’s only one real center of power in the world, the United States.” Immense amount of power concentrated in the U.S. Why would you go back to a Westphalian system with possible great power politics with again, the international anarchy is what we call it when there’s not one center of power where you have this security, competition, creating tensions.

What if the United States would dominate and indeed hegemony. And this is one of the reasons why the Europeans like the US hegemon is they always functioned as a pacifier in Europe that the French, the Germans don’t necessarily strive for leadership if the US is dominant.

The Appeal of Liberal Hegemony

And I think this was the main goal. You have one center of power. There’s no great power rivalry. And that one center of power will try to transcend power politics by spreading liberal democratic values. So I think this was the post Cold War system, which I think again, makes more sense to call it the unipolar moment or liberal hegemony, given that they had this heavy ideological component to it.

But again, I can see why people would argue for it, why they would fall for it, why this Francis Fukuyama end of history thing was so appealing. Because this was the whole mood of the, you know, if you remember from the early 90s throughout the 2000s, this is kind of what drove optimism and thinking that, you know, we transcended history, all of this. But yeah, we are dominant and our dominance is a source for a force for good. I mean, it’s a great model in many ways.

The Inherent Flaws of Unipolarity

But as many people noted already in the 90s, when the unipolar moment was announced by people like Krauthammer was, it’s inherently temporary in nature because if a power like United States would dominate every corner of the world, it would exhaust all its resources over time. It’s going to be very expensive. So you have all these resources going from the core to the periphery. They’re going to go into debt.

You’re going to have also they’re going to not just expend their material resources, but also their reputation. You know, the US is no longer this huge cultural symbol. You know, everyone loves America like in the 90s now. They’re very much resented in large parts of the world. If you do polling, you find China is much more popular around the world than the United States.

And also once all these resources are depleted, you also have then larger economic divisions within. You have social problems, you have political polarization. And yes, you see in the United States now, a lot of things seems to be falling apart and you can’t really act as a rational actor anymore.

The Rise of Collective Balancing

And the worst of all, as people predicted in 90s, what the unipolar moment would produce, not only would the US exhaust itself, but in order to be only one dominant state, you have to push down the other rising powers. Now, how would they respond? And Russia, China, India, Brazil, all these countries who see themselves as regional leaders, how would they want to live under a unipolar system?

Well, they would likely seek to collectively balance the US especially countries like Russia and China, who would, because the US would still have to lean on the alliance systems such as NATO in order to divide the world into obedient allies versus a weakened opponent. So over time this would all come together in the form of BRICS system and they would begin to decouple from the American led economic system. They would begin to align themselves more politically, then also develop the military capabilities to push against the US.

So at some point you would have, the whole liberal hegemon would fall apart and nothing about the west is no longer hegemon. And these liberal ideals, they’re long gone. We are now backing genocide in Gaza. We’re fighting an unnecessary war against Russia where we don’t even want to do diplomacy. We attack the nuclear reactors in Iran. Instead of looking at how this breaks international law, all they’re doing is making slogans about, oh, how horrible the mullahs in Iran are. I mean, this is one of the disadvantages. And also democracy at home is weakening.

Brzezinski’s Warning and the Path Not Taken

And I know, again, sorry, this is becoming a long answer, but one last quick note. The one who really put the intellectual foundation behind the liberal hegemon was Zbigniew Brzezinski. And he actually did recognize that, yes, this will also eat up our democracies at home because you can’t have an empire and democracy.

But then back in 2012, he actually recognized the unipolar moments coming to an end, even though he was the one who put the intellectual foundations behind it. Now we have one choice. Do we try to transition into multipolar system where we are the first among equals, or do we try to hold on to the unipolar moment a little bit longer, push back against everyone, but then we’ll see a multipolar order nonetheless emerge and this time in opposition to the United States.

So he said maybe we should go for the first one, the facilitator ourself, and be the first among equals. We did not. And this is why I always say this is a bad decision for the US. Is it bad for Europe? It’s bad for the political West. But when you live in Europe, you’re told that this is Kremlin propaganda. This is, you know, “Who’s paying for your plane tickets, you know who, you know where are your loyalties?” You know, this is, yeah, there’s nothing — there’s nothing that can be done. It’s. I think we have a problem in rationality as well. So, again, sorry for my very long answer.

Where’s my paycheck?

Thanks, Pascal.

######## AS HOST of Wilkerson lw_11 — Diesen only

Welcome back. We are joined today by Colonel Lawrence Wilkerson, former Chief of Staff to the US Secretary of State. Thank you very much. As always, it’s great to see you.

Yes. Good news. Well, Trump, it’s no secret now he wanted and expected a short war. However, he now seems to be locked in a position of all or nothing — either he can escalate and try to knock out America’s main rival in the Middle East, which is Iran, or he risks being expelled from the region. Not him, but the United States military, if all these bases will be destroyed and Gulf State nations would begin to grow concerned about the military presence being a source of insecurity instead of a source of security.

So where do you see Trump going from here on? We hear talks about the Marines coming into the region and boots on the ground. Is this a realistic option in your war planning? How would you assess this?

Well, regarding those radars, it’s gallium, I think, the rare earth mineral they need. And apparently China has about 98%.

Well, it’s not extracting, at least refining. So overall, the control is — if the US wants to go to war with China, it’s going to have to ask China for permission.

I think the plan was for Trump to meet with Xi Jinping in April and essentially have the Iran war finished already — like a little trophy on the mantle, standing there with Venezuela before they met.

But of course this is very different now. He’s got himself bogged down in a long war.

Well, there’s also this talk now. Trump first said we need allies to help us open up the Strait of Hormuz. And then he said, well, actually, we don’t need anyone. We’re the United States of America. We can do it ourselves. Interestingly, he said it like 30 seconds in between. So he changed his mind quickly. But nonetheless, it is an interesting question. And you, participating in war planning, how likely is it? What are the main challenges in opening up the Strait of Hormuz by military force? What would that actually entail? Would you have to invade Iranian territory, or is this simply escorts? Because escort sounds less permanent.

Well, when I hear Israel making statements such as “Iran will never stop before Israel is exterminated,” this kind of language, it’s the kind of language you would expect before that nuclear option was taken. So, yeah, I’m a bit concerned about that rhetoric. But in terms of Israel reaching for its nuclear weapons, the Samson option, what would be the restraints on Israel though? What would happen within the United States if Israel would start engaging in nuclear war?

You said the war could last up to a year, and I agree with you. I think this Trump talking about the war soon coming to an end — to be honest, I just assumed he was trying to talk down the oil prices. But unless there’s a nuclear war, it certainly could drag on for a whole year.

But does the US have supplies, though? What do we know about the weapons? Again, Trump made the statements the US has unlimited amount of ammunition, but we kind of know that’s not the case. So how long do you think the United States could go on like this? And also, how much more pain could be absorbed?

Because I saw only last night the — the embassy of the United States in Baghdad was attacked quite fiercely. And then in the morning hours, you saw an Iraqi — a couple of Iraqi resistance flying a drone over the embassy. And it just — no one was able to take it down. It just flew around and essentially monitored the area.

And it just looks like if the bases would be weakened to an extreme degree, the US runs out of weapons, the global economy goes into tailspin — this is not like the usual forever wars which are kind of contained and isolated from the world. This is going to pull in the great powers. It’s going to bring down the world economy. The US bases in the region will undermine the regional alliance system. It just looks like — if it goes on for a year, this is not going to be one stable year such as the invasion of Iraq. This is going to spill all over the place.

Well, if you would, I guess, get back in — not necessarily with the war planning, but the diplomacy — what are the possibilities for the United States? Because this is my main concern: when great powers who face great risks see that the options are becoming more and more limited, one often sees desperation, and one doesn’t want to see this when you deal with nuclear powers like the United States and Israel. Of course, Israel is more of a loose cannon.

But what are the options for the United States? What could it actually do at this point? Because Trump can declare victory and go home. But the Iranians, they’re talking about a permanent political settlement. That means get the troops out of the region. They want reparations, which could be achieved by taxing countries using the Strait of Hormuz, or even demanding that countries sell their oil in Chinese yuan if they want to pass through. I mean, there’s a lot of things they can do to achieve their war objectives. So what is it that the US can do now?

Again, I keep going back to how this could have been done, because if you go through a lot of the literature, especially the one around 2012-13 when there was a lot of, at least in academic literature, discussions about invading Iran, what one sees is that more or less always the conclusions were the same — that this will just pull us in. It will spread, it will be uncontrollable. It will be the ultimate long war. So a disaster.

But how is it that again, with all the problems, most of them should have been predictable and predicted, but I heard Trump make the statement that, well, no one, none of the experts could have predicted that Iran would attack all these US bases across the region.

No, it should have been the most predictable thing. I mean, if they listen to you—

Military Dissent and the Chain of Command

It doesn’t look good when you’re arguing the purpose of the war is to remove their theocracy. And yeah, these are the arguments.

Yes. I would have hoped that, if the argument is the other side are religious nutcases, then you would hope for some rational arguments to counter it. But no. I don’t know — the Iranians seem like their arguments, their defense, their behavior, it all seems rational. I haven’t seen this irrational act which we keep being told that they are — that they are these irrational mullahs just wanting to destroy the world.

Iran’s Military Rationality

Yeah, so in an interview with the Iranian president as well — an American interview where the news anchor was asking, “Well, why would you attack our bases?” — he sat there a bit perplexed, like, “Well, what are you talking about? You attacked us. We have to defend ourselves.” And they kind of wanted him to apologize or something. I don’t know, it was very bizarre to watch.

And it kind of starts to also make you wonder — where is the self-reflection here? Where’s the rationality? Same as now, these reports that perhaps the Russians — well, I’m assuming so, perhaps — shared intelligence with the Iranians on American targets. “How dare they?” I mean, after four years contributing to the killing of tens of thousands of Russians, offering the weapons, the intelligence, the logistics, the ammunition, the war planning — everything — and now we hear a rumor about them sharing intelligence, and this is somehow unacceptable. It’s just strange.

Well, just as a last question — how do you predict this war to develop from here on? I know there are too many unknown variables, too many things can happen and go wrong. But what is it realistic for Iran to achieve, and for the American and Israeli side? I mean, there’s no going back, at least to the way things were before the war. So where do you think this is heading, whether or not it lasts for a month or a year? How will this end?

Well, hopefully the Iranians let him.

No. Well, it’s hard to say at the moment, but of course, I don’t think if this war goes on for months and months, it’s going to be anything other than very devastating.

Yeah, yeah, because I keep making a point. Iranians can’t afford simply to have the US and Israel come back again a few months. But I think after this, if it keeps going for a few weeks or two, three months, I think this will be a… I don’t think anyone’s going to come back for them in the future. This is it. Unless some miracle weapons are created to open up the Strait of Hormuz or otherwise. No, I think the deterrent doesn’t require victory. I think it’s simply not by denial, but simply by elevating the cost. I think that would suffice. Here again, maybe I’m…

Well, geopolitics though, it’s the study of how geography influences politics. And what you’re referring to though was the fear expressed in the beginning of the 20th century by Halford Mackinder, the British, as they observed the Russians building these intercontinental railways. The concern was because in the past railways would just feed ocean-going traffic, so it would just go out to the coastline and then go on ships. But they said, oh, suddenly the transcontinental railroads, now they could replace maritime power.

So while the British had been focused on — as long as we’re the dominant maritime power, that is how we’ll stay dominant. But suddenly the Russians threatened to turn this on its head by essentially giving competitive advantage to land powers. This kind of influenced in a big way both British and American policy ever since, in terms of preventing these Eurasian powers from coming together. But that’s what I’m thinking with Iran.

That’s the Greater Eurasian Partnership initiative, though — this connecting the Eurasian land powers also by land. That is China’s Belt and Road Initiative. You have the Russian, Iranian, Indian International North-South Transportation Corridor. Of course, Russia wanting to be an east-west bridge, a north-south bridge. This is BRICS facilitating as well. It is geopolitics being essentially reimagined. Halford Mackinder’s worst nightmare, essentially.

However, I would be optimistic.

Yeah, well, I thought it’s not a bad development. I think the reason why there’s an instinct going against the Eurasian land powers creating this non-maritime connectivity is because in the 19th century it was the Russian empire, and it could become a hegemony in Eurasia — that’s a threat to the British. In the 20th century it’s a Soviet empire — they could form a Soviet hegemony in Eurasia. But now in the 21st century there is no hegemon. China can’t dominate on its own, Russia can’t, Iran can’t, India can’t. Because it’s not one central power. There will naturally be some soft balancing between them. So the US wouldn’t face a Eurasian empire which would come after the US if it pulls back. They would contain themselves, balance each other a little bit. But of course I don’t think they…

Yes. On that note, Trump could be seen as a man of peace though, because of the way the US has brought Russia and China together, overcome historical suspicion towards each other, how Russia and Iran with all their centuries of antagonism are now closer together.

It’s trust building now. So not what was intended, but maybe something good can kind of come out of all these horror stories we’re seeing these days.

Very much agree, in Europe as well. Anyways, I know you have places to run, so we’ll leave it there. And thank you very much for coming on.

######## AS HOST of Wilkerson lw_13 — Diesen only

Welcome back. We are joined today by Colonel Lawrence Wilkerson, the former Chief of Staff to the US Secretary of State. Thank you very much for coming back on the program.

Same, same. Well, we have a ceasefire now, at least so we’re told. And it appears to be already falling apart. I don’t want to be overly pessimistic. It could just be a rough start. But given the dispute over whether or not Lebanon should be a part of the ceasefire, it appears that a key component is being challenged. How are you assessing the situation, the possibility of actually arriving at a peace here?

Well, I saw that Joe Kent, he reacted to Trump’s outburst that perhaps it’s time to— well, he didn’t say leave NATO, but that’s kind of the direction it’s going. And Joe Kent tweeted something along the lines that we will leave NATO so we can take the side of Israel when Turkey and Israel eventually clash in Syria. Well, I guess I have a twofold question. Do you see the United States leaving NATO? And I mean, I think NATO now has the most obedient Secretary General ever. But will the US leave NATO, you think? And do you think such a clash is possible in which the US would actually, well, if not fighting the Turks directly, at least push heavy on the side of Israel?

Why did he say that? I know why they left. But why are there no qualified politicians replacing them?

So across NATO, we’re fragmenting. As you said, NATO is dead. In East Asia, be it South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, they’re beginning to reconsider some of this alliance system. But how about West Asia? How do you see the United States either leaving or being kicked out of West Asia? And is this because the Gulf states decide the alliance is a vulnerability? Is it that the United States loses interest? Or is the US essentially expelled by, for example, Iran holding on to the Strait of Hormuz and putting crushing limitations?

The Shift of Power in Central Asia and the New World Order

I feel like this is the revenge of Halford Mackinder, that is the—

The whole concern of the British.

Russia’s Geostrategic Dilemma

I think unlike the 19th or 20th century, the Chinese and the Russians aren’t — even though they are land powers — they’re not willing to cede the oceans to the United States. And I think you’re right that the Chinese have both the Belt and the Road. That is, they’re going to focus on the sea as well. But the Russians as well, I think they see their territory as important to tie together the Eurasian continent as east-west, also north-south, especially with this international north-south transportation corridor, which the US and Israel is, as you said, bombing now in Iran.

But they also have the ambitions of being a maritime power. You mentioned the Arctic route, of course, but if you look at the way they are flirting with countries like Indonesia, you see that they do have some significant naval aspirations. So they’ve been a naval power, a real one, since Peter the Great at least, and they intend to remain one.

The Monroe Doctrine Is Dead

Well, this is the problem though, the adjusting to the new world. For me, this was the first thing I thought about when I read the article by Krauthammer back in 1990 when he wrote about the unipolar moment, he coined the term, because he had a very rational approach saying, well, so much power is concentrated now, in the future probably the world will have a multipolar distribution of power, and then we’ll embrace that. But it doesn’t work like this because you have leaders who are ideologically committed now to having one centre of power even after realities have changed.

So it’s very difficult. But you have some, even Zbigniew Brzezinski, the national security advisor, he wrote almost a Bible on the unipolar moment with the grand chessboard. However, less focus he gets is on his book on the choice, I think it was in 2012, when he recognised that, well, actually the distribution of power is becoming multipolar. America has a choice, it can either accommodate it and carve out a position as a first among equals — that is a very favorable format for a multipolar world organized by the US — or it can resist it, but then see the rest of the world essentially create a multipolar world in opposition to the US, a balancing, something along BRICS.

And so he took at least some pragmatism with him, but at this point, we already built an ideological structure around us being the hegemony of the West as the foundation of having peace and stability in the world. So there’s no adjusting to reality. I mean, people often leave out the human aspect here, assuming — that’s also a flaw, by the way, in political realism, which both me and Mearsheimer belong to — that is, there’s often the assumption of the rational state, I think. It’s not very rational at all.

The Power of Poetry and Human Emotion

Well, the problem is often when the social scientists put together theories, it assumes it’s the same people when we’re rising as when we’re declining. I think we need more strategies and theories on how to manage decline because when societies are rising, be it economically or whatever, they usually then begin to embrace a very cosmopolitan mindset, openness, all of this. When there’s decline, it’s in human nature, you retreat into the tribe. Then after this, you will have more vicious nationalism.

Yes, very much so. So when you’re declining, it’s not just we have to plan for a weaker army, worse economy, but you also have to take into account a very tribal mindset, more angry, more vulgar, more aggressive. And more hateful of adversaries. I mean, I find it often shocking that people don’t appreciate how hateful we have become. I mean, if you open any newspaper and read about our adversaries being the Chinese, the Iranians, the Russians, forget about even discussing rationally what their interests are, but the way they are portrayed— there’s something horribly happening in our societies. We can’t even talk about it. It’s quite fascinating.

The Charlie Kirk Assassination and the Decay of Empire

Yeah, it contributes to further polarization as well. I mean, if at least there’s openness and investigations, and airing out the troubled problems, then a society can at least organize, find consensus around the truth. Whenever it is hidden, society will always polarize and follow convenient narratives instead.

I did want to get back to something you said before though, in terms of the consequences of the Iran war. You mentioned that if there is an Israel— and I thought, yeah, this is an interesting point because it begs the question to what extent this permanent damage has already been done during this war, which might not be over. I would bet it’s not. But do you see Israel being in danger? And can the Gulf states recover from this, essentially go back to the way things were?

No. I saw a comment by Tucker Carlson today in which he was arguing, why is it that every single president is more interested in governing the world instead of governing the United States? I thought that was interesting, especially when it came to Trump, because I thought he was the ultimate president who would essentially say, “Okay, I will abandon the empire to save the republic.” But I haven’t seen that in any way. If anything, he seems to be doubling down on the mistakes which he was criticizing when he was in opposition, but then follows the same policies.

The Risk of Civil War and Institutional Decay

Yeah, I was speaking to Judge Napolitano, actually had him on this program, and he expects a civil war. So there’s a lot of pessimism going around, but what you mentioned with the institutions all being corrupted under this power is one thing, but also the international system. One should ask whether or not empire hegemony becomes a curse, because if you go back to the 1990s, not only was the US admired by the whole world almost, but the leading foreign policy or strategy by China and Russia was to get along as well as possible with the United States.

I wouldn’t only put the US in this category. The Europeans have been no better themselves. I mean, they were also seen as a preferable partner to a lot of countries, but the way you see now, essentially all of this being reversed, the power diminished, the reputation diminished. I have a feeling if we hadn’t gone down Krauthammer’s path of not just the hegemony of the US, but this effort of having the hegemony of the political West, it could have been very different. But we are where we are.

And I did want to ask you, though, how you see— again, I just want to get back to the ceasefire again to go full circle here. What do you make of this? How do you make sense of this? Because as the ceasefire is now in place, we also see troops being mobilised or sent to the region. Is this just as an insurance, like reassurance? Because in Iran, of course, they’re not trusting, for good reason, much of the diplomacy. They see it as being very deceptive. Is this primarily an effort by Trump to get out of a horrible war he didn’t want to be in, or do you see Trump also buying time for a possible escalation? I mean, it doesn’t necessarily have to be one or the other. It could be trying to end the war or taking advantage to ramp it up. But how do you make sense of this ceasefire?

Two Possible Interpretations of the Ceasefire

A shellacking.

Is that the reason behind all the purge, the firing of the generals? You see this as being, uh, building a Trump-loyal army?

Well, if this is preparing for what could essentially become a civil war, it’s quite troubling.

More guns than people. It’s quite an extraordinary statistic.

No.

Yeah, that’s what you get for these new technologies.

Well, thank you for taking time. We’re almost out of time. I wish there would be some more happy news, more optimism, given that the war possibly came to an end and the ceasefire still is in place. One would hope we would have some optimism, but I don’t see it quite yet.

Yeah. BBC reported on it that Israel had struck Hezbollah command centers across the country, and what you’re seeing is just residential buildings being blown up with women, children, and men scattered. So it’s quite horrible.

Just feels like everyone can see where this is going and no one is trying to go for course correction. It’s not just the Middle East, you can say the same about Europe. I can see where this is going. That is the war against Russia. This is going to escalate very soon. And it’s just, it’s very predictable where we’re going to go. And again, nothing. It’s quite depressing.

Yeah.

######## AS HOST of Wilkerson lw_14 — Diesen only

Welcome back. We are joined again by Colonel Lawrence Wilkerson, the former Chief of Staff to the US Secretary of State. Thank you for coming back on. I wanted to ask you today about what’s happening now with Israel, Iran, and the United States.

We’ve seen something quite remarkable, I think, in that Iran has essentially extended its deterrence to Lebanon. It attacked Israel because it had attacked Lebanon. I mean, this is, I guess, on some level, quite extraordinary. That is, Israel didn’t have to attack Iran directly, and Israel appears to refuse to accept this extended deterrence. But again, it doesn’t seem to get a vote, so it can only go to war. How are you assessing the situation now?

Netanyahu Caught Between a Rock and a Hard Place

Well, on the Ukraine issue, I very much agree. After this meeting now at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum, Putin yet again had this very low-key, non-confrontational tone. But I get the impression he’s more and more standing alone on this. His National Security Council is not with him. All the people around him appear to be arguing that enough is enough.

You know, the Europeans are openly expressing the intent of continuing to attack us. We know they’re using the territory of NATO countries to attack us. We know it’s their weapons. We know they’re doing the targeting. Why do we not do anything? Essentially, inaction is becoming much more dangerous than action, the way they see it.

But I’m not sure how long Putin will hold this back. And I think for many in the West, this is something difficult to appreciate because they’ve been taught that Putin is evil himself, but he’s essentially the one holding the Russian restraint, which is now becoming very damaging to Russia to the extent it’s being abandoned soon.

So no, I think we’re sleepwalking into a massive disaster. And I’m not sure you used the phrase “idiots in Europe,” but that would be a very appropriate term, I guess, for the political leadership and their stenographers in the media.

The Folly of European Leadership and the Ukraine Crisis

Well, since you’ve mentioned, I think, yeah, so resolving the Palestinian issue, I think that is obviously at the core. And if Israel would do a fundamental shift in its foreign policy, that is abandon this clean break strategy of simply dominating its neighborhood, I think it would have to —

Well, I think at that point it does have to find a way of getting along with Iran. But to do this, it has to try to resolve the Palestinian issue, because I can understand to some extent why the Israelis have done what they’ve done the past 30 years. If you have the all-powerful global hegemon, the US, standing behind it, telling it you don’t really need to make any compromise, then why would you make any compromise? But when you see that the hegemon is in decline and you will be in a weaker position tomorrow than you are today, surely this is the time to strike the deal. But this is some —

Section 224 and the US-Israel Military Embrace

Yeah, that’s what I want to ask, because we see now the Iranians extending their deterrent to Lebanon, but I also saw today a report by the political spokesperson of Hamas, Hassem Qassem, who made the point that the Iranians contacted him and let them know that any ceasefire will now include Gaza as well. That is, Israel can no longer have a ceasefire with Iran and continue the slaughter in Gaza. So this is essentially — yeah, they’re putting real pressure.

The Humanitarian Catastrophe in Gaza

But on that real issue, that is on restraining Israel a bit, we see that one of the things that — well, it’s restrained in many ways. It’s being balanced by the Iranians. They are also struggling in their fight with Hezbollah. They’re not being successful against the Palestinians. But I think a key, possibly the most important issue where it’s in decline will be its international standing. And most importantly in the United States, because the US supplies the money and the weapons to do these things and the intelligence for that matter.

But now we see as the support for Israel is declining, there’s an effort now to essentially embed Israel legally within the US military-industrial complex. And this is with this new Section 224. I was wondering if you can unpack what this actually means. I mean, what is at stake with this?

The Dangers of Section 224 and Unchecked US-Israel Ties

It’s quite extraordinary that the USA is prepared to—

—the USA is prepared to—

But everything will have a reaction then. I mean, if the US is trapped legally in such an arrangement with the Israelis where they have this kind of access and no oversight, it might do the exact opposite. It would further fuel the resentments. That is, there’s a growing faction, it seems, within the US now who would like to have a little bit of distance, at least some sunlight between the US and Israel, especially among the America Firsters. Well, I was just wondering, but it won’t build—

Well, what do you see as being the wider future now of Israel though? Because this is giving it a lease on life, it seems, this Section 224. But given the problems it has now, especially now the Iranians are extending the deterrence to Lebanon, Gaza, or Palestine in general, where is this headed? Because they’re also now with this Greater Israel initiative, they’re alienating Turkey and the Saudis. I mean, they’re not really doing anything significant just yet. But with all of these variables all at the same time, how do you see the future of Israel looking?

Well, the Strait of Hormuz obviously has been a key — well, as you said, a nuclear weapon as such against both the US and Israel. But we learned something else today though, that is after the attacks by Israel against Iran, we heard from Yemen that they announced from now on Israel would also — will have all its access to the Red Sea banned, that is in the narrow strait, they’re going to essentially cut it off. And the Americans are seemingly put in a difficult spot because if they were going to contest this with military force, they would end up on that list too.

So you can already see how the escalation ladder has been set up. And it makes the question, how do you see this playing out? How will this affect, I guess, the deeper problems for not just for Israel, but the US commitment to defend Israel no matter what?

Because we are, well, there’s no good pathway here. I think what Trump has been trying to do is to essentially control the escalation ladder, tell the Iranians, okay, we have a ceasefire, then you begin to cut out certain spaces. We can do a blockade on you, we can continue killing people in Gaza. The ceasefire still holds in Lebanon, we pretend. But this is, when the Iranians go up the escalation ladder, it is often disproportionate. There’s a problem that they can continue to go up there with the United States. So where does the US go from here? Because this is an interesting card to play at this point in time.

Key Straits and the Militarization of Global Waterways

But this is the old Mackinder goal of establishing physical transportation corridors by land to deprive the maritime powers of their dominance. And well, you can draw again parallels to what’s happening in Europe. Only today or yesterday, the EU announced that its naval missions in the Mediterranean would now be expanded to also allow them to board what they call the Russian shadow fleet tankers. But at some point they’re going to realise, I mean, it’s very strange to do this as the world becomes multipolar because the Russians and others can now begin to retaliate. They can also put sanctions on Western ships, they can also begin to board them. So undermining the freedom of navigation now seems a bit destructive, especially as the Eurasian powers have land corridors while the Westerns do not. So I think this is a very foolish development.

I think this is one of the flaws.

It’s also because the great powers will always have some power from interrupting international trade. This is something the Germans always learned, that is towards the end of any war, the British would come and put the blockade on their ports and they could starve to death. But also 22 years ago when they had the Orange Revolution in Ukraine, very much NATO-backed in 2004, what worried the Russians was that the vast majority of gas going from Russia to Europe would transit through Ukraine, which meant that if the US and its partners could essentially hijack Ukraine, then they would be able to unify the energy consumers with the transit states against the energy supplier, which is Russia.

But now, of course, you see, when you look at the required land corridors for stability, the Russians are looking towards China. I mean, the massive border — and there’s no countries in between. Yeah, you have Mongolia on the side, but you can circumvent this one. And also, it’s not easy to hijack Mongolia. But essentially, this is part of the calculation which is pushing now China and Russia together, that they can stand back to back. There’s no way of disrupting this partnership. And I just think a lot of what we have been doing goes very much against our own interest.

The New Silk Road and a Shifting World Order

Well, that is the wider idea, that is, along these transportation corridors, this is where civilizations grew. Power accrued, and then of course, when the ancient Silk Road was disrupted, this was the rise of the Western maritime powers 500 years ago, connecting the world. And with this, of course, this was the source of our 500 years of dominance. Well, speaking on behalf of the political West.

Yeah, but now with the reconnection or redeveloping the ancient Silk Road — not just with the physical corridors by railroad, ports, but also the digital Silk Road and connecting with this industrial cooperation, technological hubs, trading through banks, payment systems, national currencies — it’s really all fun and rupee.

Yeah.

Well, let me just ask a last question before I forget, because the Iranian pushback and again, not ceding the waters to the United States, which is a huge development, one could add. Do you see the Iranians more prepared now to also attack the US ships directly? Because so far it appears they’re going more heavily after Israel and the Gulf states. Do you see any shifts to that regard?

Israel’s Gamble and the Domestic Fallout

So, sorry, I will squeeze in one last question there. What do you think Israel is going to do now? Because it is in a difficult spot, and for people in Israel who say that this could turn into an existential threat, it’s not really that exaggerated. They are struggling internally with political divisions. They are losing key allies. They are egging on some large powers.

I saw in the Financial Times today — even the Financial Times wrote that Netanyahu, after 30 years of trying to get a war with Iran, bet everything on this and lost. And I thought that summarized it nicely. So what is it that Israel can do now?

Israel’s Isolation and America’s Domestic Crisis

Well, thank you for sharing your insights, and we’ll wrap it up there. So thanks again and have a great day.

######## AS HOST of Wilkerson lw_12 — Diesen only

Welcome back. We are joined today by Colonel Lawrence Wilkerson, the former Chief of Staff to the US Secretary of State. So thank you for coming back on the program.

So there’s a lot of things happening in the world now. For one, Trump appears to be, well, appears to be recognizing that he doesn’t have anywhere to go with the Iranians. I don’t think he’s ready to admit defeat, but we see more of this rhetoric emerging in the United States. But we’re seeing other things as well, the ability of Russia to balance NATO in Ukraine, and also China seemingly prevailing in the economic war.

So if you take a step back, where do you see this going? And how will this compel the US to change course, or do you think it will begin to adjust to being balanced, or do you think the US will continue to push forward?

No, I agree. It’s, well, but there’s some—

Yeah, well, that’s what I mean. I don’t think either the Iranians or the Russians expect any diplomacy or peace coming from the other side. Again, this is the shocking part with the diplomacy, that there is such a desperation to find a peace, yet the Americans and Iranians can’t even sit and talking to each other.

It’s the same with the Europeans. They refuse to even talk to Russia after all these years. It’s very diplomatically immature. I mean, this is absurd that we’re at this stage. But also another similarity is the likely escalation. As I said, neither the Iranians nor the Russians expect that their counterpart will actually want a peace agreement that recognizes a new status quo, that is essentially a post-hegemonic status quo.

And for this reason, the Russians are now having their nuclear drills. The Russians also hit Kiev extremely hard, which we haven’t seen. So they’re signalling a massive escalation. The Iranians are also signalling if the Americans attack again that they will essentially burn the Gulf States to the ground. They will shut off the strait, sorry, the Red Sea as well. So they’re planning their own escalation.

So it’s not a good time for diplomacy. But is this desperation, or how do you see the lack or the willingness to actually mediate with the other side? Because in Europe, it’s again quite absurd. They don’t want the war to continue, they say at least, but they don’t want to talk to the opponent. They demand a seat at the table during negotiations. However, they don’t want to talk to the Russians. It’s quite extraordinary.

How, I mean, your time in the White House, did you see anything similar to this?

But we’re hearing all these reports about a massive split emerging between Trump and Netanyahu. Again, I’m not sure if it’s real or not, but also some more credible reports that Netanyahu is also becoming quite desperate, that Israel is in a very difficult spot. Again, this is— the war in Iran, against Iran, isn’t going as planned. The objective was to knock out the main adversary of Israel, begin to reshape the entire region towards its favor, and now gambling everything on this, it’s not going as expected, to say the least. So what are the options for Israel at this point? You know, what to expect from Netanyahu and just try to restart the war and hope for the best.

Well, as the United States, stuck in Iran, likely contemplating yet another strike, where does that leave the US in its other campaigns? Because it looks as if Trump wants to dial down the confrontation with China. And, well, meanwhile, it’s unclear where the US stands these days on Ukraine. There’s not much talk about it. We don’t see any pressure on Zelensky or the Russians for that sake. It seems to be something that could change, of course, given that the Russians appear to be, I guess, escalating and, well, essentially putting their foot down, drawing a red line, whatever it might be, to the most recent escalation.

And again, I talked to Douglas McGregor. He was making the point that these drones which have been hitting Russia through the Baltic states, that they’ve been almost certainly directed by US forces as well. So we were talking about a very dangerous area, but on one hand, they don’t talk, they’re not talking about Ukraine, they’re not having any diplomacy with the Russians over this, but the warfare appears to be continuing with US involvement as well.

So where do you see the US going with this? Are they, does the Trump administration still want to put an end to the Ukraine war, or do they want to hand it over to the Europeans? So how do you see this?

When you say Russia will fight NATO, do you — again, I would expect a gradual escalation somehow. That is, first you’re going to see perhaps some Ukrainian drones which the Russians have downed and sent back into Latvia. Then you might see a more overt conventional strike before you see something bigger. How do you see the American position on this? Well, how likely do you think it is that the US would join in on the fight, protecting Riga, sacrificing New York in the process, possibly?

When you say we’re heading there, do you also think we’re sleepwalking into another world war? I mean, do you see any historical parallels, or how do you view it?

A Unique and Unprecedented Geopolitical Moment

Well, the intentions are hard to read, but in terms of the capabilities, I want to try to see what the Europeans and the United States might do, because you witnessed the Iraq War buildup from inside the government. Do you see something similar now? I mean, are the Europeans ready to fight Russia in any significant way? And has the US prepared itself for another round against the Iranians? How are you seeing the actual buildup? Because it’s very hard to read intentions these days. I’m hoping that some of our leaders don’t actually believe the nonsense they’re spouting, because a lot of this is becoming quite terrifying. But again, you never know who the audience is, if it’s the public or the adversary. But in terms of the pure capabilities which are being built up — or are they being built up at all? Because we’re here in Europe, hearing a lot about the governments arming themselves, but it doesn’t seem to have produced something very significant yet.

Well, this is the uncertain aspect as well, to what extent the allies will still be there tomorrow. I mean, when you have this huge shift in power and the way wars are fought, it’s almost a delusion to assume that the alliances won’t shift as well.

Well, what is happening to Korea though? How serious is the talk there about decoupling from the United States?

The Generational Shift and the Future of US Alliances

That doesn’t help at all. Well, it seems to me one of the things that could push us over the edge into war is that many of our political leaders seem to quite genuinely believe that what they’re doing is not provocative. They interpret it as being simply deterrence. You heard this rhetoric for a while, and indeed, even when they expand NATO, the common rhetoric is that, well, NATO is not provocative, it’s a defensive alliance.

And it seems also, to get back to the original topic, when there’s a lack of diplomacy, when you don’t really address and reduce the security concern of your opponent, how do you have security then? And it appears, especially in Europe now, the only answer, the only thing that creates security now is deterrence. That is, we need as much weapons as possible pointed at the Russians, and this is somehow the magic silver bullet to gain security. But when does deterrence become provocation? Because I think this is a key in the way that, at least European leaders, are thinking.

Well, one month before the April 2008 NATO summit where NATO offered future membership to Georgia and Ukraine, Tony Blair, of all people, according to a WikiLeaks cable, told the Americans that the strategy towards Russia should be to make Russia “a little desperate” about their activities along Russian borders. And in his words, Russia should be “shown firmness and sown with seeds of confusion.” So this was kind of the recipe for stability, to make sure that they feel intimidated and desperate. No one knows what the Americans and British are doing on their borders. Again, it’s hard to understand how this is intended to fuel security.

But we see the same now with the rhetoric around Kaliningrad. The European leaders are saying we have to deter the Russians. So we’re going to put more pressure on Kaliningrad. Again, it’s an enclave. It’s cut off from the rest of the Russian territory, surrounded by NATO countries. We’re talking about blocking access in the Baltic Sea, putting more pressure. There are talks about the ability to invade. And this is deterrence now.

I used to teach deterrence at the university, and this was not in the textbook. Deterrence is supposed to prevent the adversary from changing the status quo, but this is revisionism when you try to put the opponent under increasing pressure. This is seeking capitulation. And if a war sparks in the Baltic Sea over Kaliningrad or the Baltic States attacking, we’re going to hear this word again — “unprovoked.” “We were just deterring them.” It’s quite extraordinary.

America in Deep Trouble

Yeah, well, it doesn’t matter how the situation changes. We kept expanding for 30 years through all these forever wars. Now you have new centers of power emerging, balancing us, yet there’s no sense about any need to change strategy and just continue to live as if it’s the 1990s.

Well, on that horrible note, we’ll leave it there. Thank you so much. I hope— I really hope you’re wrong on this. But again, there’s—

Anyways, so thank you so much for taking the time and I hope to see you again soon.

######## AS HOST of Wilkerson lw_15 — Diesen only

Welcome back, everyone. I’m very pleased that Colonel Lawrence Wilkerson is joining us again, the former Chief of Staff to the US Secretary of State. So thank you for coming back on.

Well, it is quite dire. And I see not just this war on Russia, which is now moving into a dangerous phase, but the war against Iran as well, that appears really to be spiraling out of control quite fast.

The destruction now — I mean, it looks like it’s less intensity, but the destruction is going seemingly beyond the previous rounds in terms of what they’re willing to hit. That is, I guess neither side sees any purpose of diplomacy anymore.

And also the Iranians now seem to be more open to retaliating more against critical infrastructure. They don’t seem to be looking to prevent the deaths of US soldiers in order to prevent escalation. They seem also willing to go after US tech, desalination plants.

I was just wondering, how are you assessing the situation based on what the Iranians are willing to hit and also what the Americans are going after? How do you see the competing strategies here?

mess?

Well, I share many, if not all of your concerns. I mean, the political meltdown in the United States — I think this can create a lot of unforeseen consequences. It could also not just be a political meltdown, but also a possible economic crisis being unleashed, much worse than 2008, be it by debt, unsustainable debt, or even a currency crisis. I’m also very worried about the global economy being pushed off a cliff, obviously.

If even a food crisis hits, it’s going to spur a lot of new conflicts and problems, which will be difficult to foresee. But also the collapse of diplomacy — you can see all the crises will begin to get worse, and yet there’s nothing there. Leaders can’t even talk to each other anymore. They all behave like 12-year-old girls in a schoolyard trying to freeze each other out. It’s quite disappointing.

And of course, the war against Russia now — I think this has reached a critical phase. That is, Russia now sees retaliation as being imperative in order to restore its deterrence.

Oh, definitely so.

I think they’re stacking up armored vehicles, Oreshnik missiles. I think they know that at some point they have to not just punish Kiev, put a blockade on Odessa. At some point they’re going to have to go after a NATO country to restore their deterrent. And before you do this, because it can escalate out of control, I think they’re preparing themselves for the possibility of it spiraling out of control.

So there’s a lot of things I worry about, but when it comes to the Iran war, I’m curious — what is it that brings you most concern? Because we’ve seen, again, the widening of targeting. For example, the surprise attack on Syria, where they went after the US troops there, which was quite interesting. Or as you said before, attacks on the Kurds to—

Yeah, all official statements. I mean, in Europe, the political and media establishment are in full consensus that NATO’s not involved in the war on Russia. Who listens to them anymore?

But again, you have the widening of targeting by Iran now. A lot of things can happen very quickly in terms of changing. That is Kuwait — if they go after desalination plants and energy infrastructure, something could crack there. They could be absorbed by Iraq. Bahrain is extreme.

Yeah, going south.

Yeah, well, that’s what I’m thinking. All the Gulf states are very vulnerable, but Kuwait could be absorbed into Iraq. Bahrain would be very vulnerable to regime change — to shed the Sunni dictatorship there. You have a place like Jordan which could erupt into civil war or regime change as well.

As you said, the American political and media establishment are focusing now on the Iranian missiles suddenly getting much faster and more accurate. And as you said, the Russians and Chinese are probably involved. I just assumed they would be. Of course, the US has been fighting this Ukrainian proxy war against Russia now for 12 years. The Chinese know that their economy is a key target of the war in Iran. So why wouldn’t they?

The Red Sea is shutting down. How about a land invasion? This is a possibility, or are we sleepwalking into a nuclear war here? The US will now allow the Saudis to have more enrichment? I don’t know. There’s a lot of things all happening at once. I’m just wondering — what is it that worries you the most here?

Nuclear Proliferation and the Saudi Arabia Deal

I find it, well, depressing the way security is referred to now. But as you said, when you have key large powers which are rivals, there’s no talk anymore about how to manage security competition or harmonize interests, manage how we compete. It’s all about destroying rivals. That is, how do we destroy Russia? How do we destroy Iran? And you see this in the rhetoric from both politicians and the media — that is, success is measured only in destruction and death.

And if it was only the political media establishment, it would be something. But you get the feeling society is changing as well. You hear people talk, I see the comments in newspapers, and the average person is starting to sound like a psychopath. “Oh, look at what we destroyed. Look at what we burned.” This kind of talk — the way people speak as well — society is getting uglier. So there’s something wrong about how one approaches strategic adversaries. The idea that you would respect your opponent, try to put yourself in their shoes — all of this is long gone now. As you said, the hatred is quite off-putting.

But my question to you was about how sustainable you think the US alliances are, because a lot of its allies now look more like vassals. I mean, there’s always been some vassalage, but at least in the past, they could prosper under US leadership. But now, once all these allies, if you will, are thrown into conflict with America’s adversaries, the first impulse, I think, is higher dependence on the US. So they’re willing to subordinate themselves more — politically, militarily, economically. However, at some point they begin to ignore the basic national interest.

And if you look at the Gulf states now, the subordination to the US is leading to their destruction. Yes, first with this war on Iran, they will see the need to tie themselves closer to the US. But if they can’t defeat Iran, and participating in this war will only deepen the pain. It’s a bit like the European position in Europe. I mean, first, because they fear Russia, they will subordinate themselves further to the US and will give up everything of independence, autonomy, and even self-respect. But at some point, if they want to restore their security and their prosperity, they’re going to have to look after their own interests. And that means creating some distance from the United States.

I was just wondering, do you see any indication of any of the Gulf states possibly flipping, trying to break away from the alliance structure? Because this structure has been cemented over the decades, so it’s just hard to see it happening. On the other hand, if they don’t, this could be their undoing.

The Failure of Imagination and the Coming Migration Crisis

And I think this is the problem — that is, as we see the world having shifted from unipolarity to multipolarity, in the multipolar world there are a lot of opportunities to create very different realities, which could be much more favorable. At least I’m thinking the Europeans — the rise of Asia, for example — it has a lot of potential for Europe, for prosperity, diversification. I mean, this could be an exciting time. But the only thought in their minds is how do we recreate an era which is already gone — that is, the unipolarity of the ’90s.

But when you spoke of political imagination, I was thinking about what George Kennan was talking about in the 1990s, because he was saying: “Why are we doing this? The Cold War is over. We can almost create any world we want. Why is our political imagination limited to expanding the military blocs of the Cold War? Who should be on the inside? Who should be on the outside? Why are we discussing this? Don’t we have political imagination to envision something different?”

And I think that also goes into what you said about whether or not we need another big war to change, because I think that’s an unfortunate condition in human nature. That is, we are married very much to the status quo — possibly lacking political imagination — until, often, big wars. Historically, this is when we create new international institutions: the UN, these kinds of things. When the old status quo has been eliminated by war. Also, people have a healthy aversion to war. It seems every generation needs to experience a massive war before they begin to pursue some common sense.

I don’t think we can afford, as we said, with the new technologies now — I don’t think we can afford another world war, which we appear to have already possibly entered. I just wanted to ask a last question, possibly too personal in nature, but you devoted decades of your life to service in the U.S. military, and I was just wondering: how are you assessing now what is happening to the U.S. military? Not to single out the US — I think the Europeans are also changing — in terms of how the military is seen, what the objectives are, how security is considered. I mean, the overall military culture. How are you looking at this now?

The Decay of Military Ethics and Leadership

Well, I wish we could have ended on a more positive note, but again, I feel similar ways. I’m utterly appalled by what I’m seeing in Europe. For so many years, the European leaders — especially after World War II and after the Cold War — defined Europe as essentially having learned from history. It was all going to be about liberal democratic values and peace. And now the leaders no longer believe in diplomacy. They only talk about fighting Russians, killing, destruction, becoming more authoritarian — essentially also losing faith in the future.

So no, I think a lot of those values which were supposed to define Europe turned out to be just a house of cards. It’s depressing to watch. But we’ll see where this is all headed. I’m not very optimistic.

Well, again, on that sad note, thank you very much for your time. Let’s hope for better days.

######## AS HOST of Wilkerson lw_16 — Diesen only

Welcome back. Today is September 15th, 2026, and we have the great pleasure of being joined by Colonel Lawrence Wilkerson, the former Chief of Staff to the US Secretary of State. Thank you for coming back on the program.

Thank you for the tolerance. I appreciate it.

Well, I wanted to ask — we’ll start in the Middle East because we’ve seen the very fierce Saudi attacks on Yemen to slow down the advances of the Houthis, or Ansar Allah, as they call themselves. And we now see some retaliation, that is large-scale attacks on Saudi Arabia. That is, the Houthis are now hitting back in a big way with explosions across many cities, even Mecca. At least that’s what’s being reported, but this is happening pretty much live as we speak.

But there’s a lot of other developments. We see Iraqi troop movements near Syria. But I guess the big news is that Iran and Oman seem to have moved towards a deal to restore the traffic of the Strait of Hormuz. This was supposed to be a regional agreement. So Iran, Iraq, the Gulf states minus Bahrain, they were supposed to meet in Oman to sign this deal without the United States, but then the Saudis postponed. So a lot of news coming out. What is the significance of this, you think?

Sorry, you said 50-50?

Saudi Arabia’s Vulnerability and Israeli False Flags

Yeah, this new form of warfare, it makes the open societies even more vulnerable.

Yeah. Well, that seems to be the direction the world is taking, unfortunately.

But by the way, before the explosions in Mecca — I see this in the livestream here. It’s not — I haven’t seen a report confirming it. So hopefully that was an alarm. But yeah, we’ll find out.

But you mentioned Israel before. And I thought it was interesting that the Iranian spokesperson made a point or argued that when the Islamic countries fight each other, there’s only one winner, Israel. And we also saw, again, this deal to restore the traffic in the Strait of Hormuz, this big regional agreement, which was set to put everyone on the same page. Bahrain was the only one who wasn’t supposed to participate. And then it’s assumed that this was under pressure from Israel.

Why do you think Israel will be opposed to any such agreement? I guess besides the obvious, is there a concern there might be a new understanding among all these different Islamic states in West Asia?

The GCC, Iran, and the Future of U.S. Presence in the Middle East

Well, before we started recording today, you and I were talking about Stephen Walt for a bit, about his warnings in the 1990s about the burdens and the challenges of hegemony. That is if you want to, when the United States was unconstrained and seemingly all-powerful in the early ’90s, the key argument was this, in all the celebrations and the optimism, he wanted to shine some light towards the threat, which is what does such a powerful country do when it’s not constrained anymore? I mean, when there’s seemingly can do anything in the world, absorb any pain. Suddenly you would assume that the leash would be taken off on the military-industrial complex and run crazy over the world. And he compared it to a 500-pound gorilla with no limitations. And it was a real problem. And I think maybe this is the same thought you have from countries like China that is bearing that crown. It’s a heavy crown. Be pulled out.

China’s Reluctance to Inherit the Imperial Mantle

Well, before you mentioned on the Middle East, you mentioned that all the countries in West Asia, all these Islamic countries, they could gradually move towards a consensus that all this fighting is unnecessary and they can find a new status quo. And well again, as the Iranian spokesperson said, it’s only Israel that benefits. But within Israel as well, though, you do see growing opposition to what Israel is doing. A few weeks ago, you had this. I think it was a signed letter by 200 prominent Israelis. It included the 2 prime ministers, some generals. I mean, this was not your average Joe. These are top-tier people in Israel, 200 of them, who condemned, this is a direct quote, “Jewish terrorism in the West Bank.” So this is a very strong thing to do, especially when your country’s locked in such a fight, not just with the Iranians but the Lebanese, the Palestinians, well, the list goes on. But what is the significance?

Yeah, but that’s a great question. They’re a very small, well, relatively small country. So for them to have a seven-front war — that’s yeah, I well, I would be worried. And again, not just making a lot of enemies abroad, but also fragmenting society within. How do you see this? Because there seems to be just more and more tensions building up here.

Netanyahu, Haaretz, and the Question of October 7

How would Israel, I guess, come apart and, well, suicide itself? Would it be by civil war or just because, as you said, on the main foreign policy issues, they seem all to be on board with the same policies. So why — well, what is it that could tear this apart? Would it be a conventional war from abroad, or —

Their options aren’t looking good, but given the vulnerable position of Israel, I mean, I’m a bit concerned, and I think one should be. There’s reasons for concern when a nuclear power is losing a conventional war and the subsequent decline. It could be existential. I think Israel knows the difficult position it’s currently in. And the prospect of nuclear war is obviously, obviously there. But do you think the US would look the other way or go “attaboy”? Or how would the US, you think, react to such an Israeli action?

Colby, Pollard, and the Normalization of Nuclear Use

Well, all this talk about making the nuclear weapons more usable with the lower yields. I mean, as you said, when the cat is out of the bag, that implies the rest of the world will also need — well, will probably also use them. Indeed, you can make an argument why they should. You don’t want to hand over the prerogative or monopoly on using nuclear weapons to one of the great powers. So there would be almost an interest for the others to use as well, because international law and rules is about mutual constraint. If you already said you’ll constrain yourself, why would you — what negotiation power do you have with the opponent? I just — this, yeah, this is such a disaster. It’s —

Well, if the US would feel inclined towards moving in this direction, a good reason for the US would be also save face, I guess, to show some — it looks as if the Trump administration would rather be condemned for being overly brutal as opposed to showing weakness. And one of my concerns in this war against Iran has been Trump continues to put a positive spin. And I’m not sure how many times he’s declared victory now, but it’s to some extent normal. You keep a positive spin on the war, to preserve public support for the war. But at some point, it’s just lying and walking blindfolded into disaster.

Like the missile shortage. This is an important thing. This constrains the United States. I know why Washington doesn’t want to talk about it in public, because it shows that they have a weak hand. But when I hear Hegseth talk as well, I mean, the way this is treasonous. “Of course, we have more missiles now than at the beginning of the war.” That might have been Trump actually, but I can’t tell them apart anymore. But how do you view Hegseth’s role in this though, in terms of concealing the problems?

Well, I also saw Vice President Vance. He was also making a comment during this podcast interview this month that he wouldn’t be shocked if the Antichrist was walking amongst us and we could be living in the end times. I mean, not what you want to hear. Not very reassuring from your vice president at all.

It’s just this language seems to reflect the mood now because they bet everything, it seems, on this war against Iran. And they lied and lied about how it’s going great, “we’re winning, we’re winning.” But at some point, you’re going to have to either escalate in some big way to make true what you’ve been claiming, or you’re going to have to just lose face in the biggest way. It just seems — I mean, it seems insane, but that’s where we’re going, no?

It just looks like, well, the Soviets or the Russians, they walked away from an empire. Somewhat gracefully, somewhat peacefully. It’s just — Gorbachev. Gorbachev was —

Yeah, I know in Russia they, to a large extent, blame him for all the chaos because the ’90s became a nightmare for many people, but I never feel that was completely fair because a lot of the system was quite broken before he got there. You should probably play these cards differently, which he recognized as well. But that being said, it’s not a —

Well, about on the topic of Hegseth and Trump and their — well, let’s call them semi-crazy statements. Do I assume that he can’t declare victory every week and will still believe it? But at some level, I wonder if Trump is receiving bad information or politically filtered information because I remember in this first administration we were told that some people kept the documents away from him, or there’s obviously a competition for influence and competing priorities in the White House. To what extent do you think he gets all the information he needs and makes a, I guess, a rational decision based upon this? Because do you think he believes that the US could actually win, or is this just delusion?

Who Really Controls the Message to Trump?

Well, as we’re marching towards disaster here, let me ask a last question because there’s still an opportunity to put an end to this whole thing. Again, I was a bit optimistic when there was this talk about this regional meeting in Oman, which Saudi Arabia postponed. But again, it hasn’t been canceled so far. From what I understand, it’s only been postponed.

But if such an agreement could be reached in terms of how to manage the Strait of Hormuz, like a collective arrangement, once the strait opens, that would be a huge step forward. And of course, this could even be activated, as Iran said, if the United States ends its naval blockade and returns to the Memorandum of Understanding, then such an agreement could be activated and it could put an end to the whole thing. Do you, in the desperate effort of ending on a positive note, do you have any optimism about the possibility of such a peace?

Yeah, well, ideally one would have this security arrangement, or to find a middle spot because you don’t want Iranian hegemony, but also having the entire security —

Yeah, it would be too much probably. But the current former status quo, at least, that is that the main regional security architecture is essentially anti-Iranian bloc that is mimicking a bit what we have in Europe where we decided, well, what should be the European security architecture? Well, let’s have a military bloc which confronts the largest country in Europe. This was kind of our solution. And now we are up in arms that somehow this didn’t produce stability, but it’s the same in the Middle East.

You can’t have the largest power, Iran, and the whole security architecture is about confronting that power. It just, it doesn’t make any, it’s not a recipe for stability, but either that or Iranian hegemon, surely there must be an inclusive security architecture one could have. Which would preclude both of them.

The United States’ Role in Creating Regional Instability

Yeah, I remember back in — was it in 2008 or ’09 — where you had the WikiLeaks had released some reports from the ambassador of the US in Norway, and they were making the point that, well, the Norwegians were worried about missile defence because you’re going to need the Norwegian territory to surveil Russia because they were afraid that undermining the nuclear deterrent of Russia would lead to instability and danger.

And well, the American ambassador essentially wrote, well, we’re going to have to find a way to work around this. And so we’ll talk to our journalists, our NGOs, our think tanks, all these different assets, and also the strategy. As long as we frame it as alliance solidarity, either you repeat our slogans or you’re undermining the alliance, then the Norwegians would fall in line.

And a few months later, there’s a new cable coming to Washington from the American embassy in Norway. Yeah, the Norwegians are falling in line. They refuse to say anything that’s too similar to the Russian concerns because they can be accused of parroting the Kremlin talking points. We’re an obedient people and now our politicians are barking like mad dogs, so well done.

Yeah, I can’t make this up. Well, Colonel, as always, thank you very much for your time.