######## 2026-03-05 If Iran survives and stays steadfast

If Iran survives and stays steadfast, Trump’s resource war on China and BRICS collapses

The U.S.-Israeli war primordially is being waged to create Israeli hegemony across West Asia.

At one level, the conflict is an existential battle, fought out between Iranian missile and intercept capabilities, versus those of the U.S. and Israel.

Conventional thinking has been that this was a no-brainer contest: Iran would be outmatched by U.S. technology and firepower, and forced to capitulate.

Iran’s military humiliation, plus the decapitation of its leadership, would result – it is presumed – in an organic upsurge of populist resentment that would overwhelm the Iranian State, and roll it back into the western sphere.

On the plane of the purely bilateral struggle – as the war enters the fourth day – Iran sits in the driving seat. The State has not crumbled, but rather is visiting drone and missile carnage on to American military bases across the Gulf, and is striking Israel with hypersonic missiles, armed (for the first time) with multiple steerable warheads.

At this point, Iran is on the verge of exhausting Gulf interceptor stockpiles entirely – and too, has eaten deeply into Israeli-American dwindling air defence reserves through Iran initially prioritising older missiles and drones that deplete air defences. Iranian high-end missiles flying at speeds above Mach Four are proving largely impervious to Israeli air defences.

The U.S. intelligence-led assassination of the Supreme Leader has proved to be a cardinal error. Rather than precipitate a collapse of morale, it led instead to massive outpourings of support for the Islamic Republic. To evident surprise in Washington, it has also fired-up Shi’a across the region with calls for jihad and for revenge for the killing of a revered Shi’a religious leader. Tel Aviv and Washington badly misread the terrain.

In sum, Iran is resilient and holding its ground for the long-term against the U.S., whose calculus was grounded in a quick ‘shoot and scoot’ war – a strategy largely imposed by paucity of munitions. The Gulf monarchies are wobbling. The Gulf ‘brand’ – Prosperity, big money, AI, beaches and tourism – likely is over. Israel too, may not survive in its present state.

The geopolitical ramifications, however, extend far beyond Iran and the Gulf States. Iran’s selective closure of the Hormuz Strait, and the destruction of Gulf port facilities more widely, tells another tale.

Take Iran’s particular focus on destroying the U.S. Fifth Fleet’s infrastructure at Bahrain. The Fifth Fleet forms the backbone to U.S. regional hegemony – as laid out here:

“Approximately 90% of the world’s oil trade passes through these areas, and U.S. control guarantees the linked energy supply chains. The fleet also covers three vital strategic chokepoints: the Strait of Hormuz, the Suez Canal, and the Bab al-Mandeb Strait. And its HQ is not just a port. It’s a comprehensive radar, intelligence and database centre”.

Iran has succeeded in destroying the radars and much of Bahrain’s port logistic and administrative infrastructure. It is systematically driving U.S. forces out of the Gulf.

The war on Iran is not projected just for the U.S. to add Iranian resources to the U.S. energy ‘domination portfolio’, as per the Venezuelan model. Iran, last year, represented only about 13.4% of total oil imported by China by sea — not a crucial component.

The Iran war however, is all about a bigger U.S. play: Control of strategic chokepoints, and of energy transit more generally, so as to deny China access to energy markets and so to curtail its growth.

The Trump National Security Strategy (NSS) set a goal for U.S. policy of “rebalanc[ing] China’s economy towards household consumption”.

This is American code-speak for coercing China to export less, and for it to import more through a radical economic reconfiguration to consuming more domestically — the object being to restore America’s share of global exports versus hyper-competitive and cheaper Chinese exports.

One way to impose this shift would be through tariffs and trade war. But another would be to deny China access to energy markets that it — and the wider BRICS market — requires for growth. This might be achieved, the NSS strategy hints, by constricting resource supply – i.e. by imposing naval blockades of chokepoints, by siege, and the seizure of vessels through the arbitrary sanctioning of vessels (as seen in the Venezuelan stand off.

In brief, Iran’s strikes on the Gulf may be firstly intended to convey a message that, for Gulf neighbours to align with Israel and America and against Iran, is no longer acceptable to Iran. But what Iran also seems to be doing is to attempt to wrest key sea chokepoints, ports and naval corridors from U.S. control — and to bring them under Iranian control.

In other words, to bring the seaways adjacent to the Persian Gulf under Iranian control. Such a shift would be hugely important – not just to China and Iran’s relations with China, but to Russia too, which needs to keep seaborne export routes open.

Should Iran prevail in this mammoth struggle against Israel and the Trump Administration, the ramifications would be huge. The (selective) closure of Hormuz over months, in itself, would play havoc in European gas markets, as well as possibly trigger a debt market crisis.

Further, the breaking of the ‘Gulf Brand’ as a safe investment haven will likely see the dollar devalue, as investors search for alternative geography in which to situate their assets.

The U.S.’ Trump Route for International Peace and Prosperity corridor across the South Caucasus will likely bite the dust. This likely will induce India to return to — and stay with — Russian oil imports, and impact on India’s relations with Israel.

Beyond the geo-political reconfiguration as a result of the war, the geo-financial architecture will change significantly too.

The views of individual contributors do not necessarily represent those of the Strategic Culture Foundation.

Por que a agência de inteligência de Lula fez uma acusação formal contra a Rússia em carta dirigida à União Europeia?

NVIDIA RTX PRO 5500: la nuova frontiera della guerra tecnologica tra Stati Uniti e Cina

Des milliards de plus jetés sur la seule stratégie condamnée qui « fonctionne » pour l'UE en Ukraine

Verhandlungen durchs Fadenkreuz. 80 Jahre später sieht Deutschland in Russland wieder lieber einen Feind als einen Partner

As premissas equivocadas por trás do alarde em torno da «guerra contra a Rússia» dos europeus

Xi Jinping negli Stati Uniti: un nuovo punto di partenza per le relazioni sino-statunitensi

Le « piège de la crédibilité ». Un piège potentiellement destructeur pour l’Arabie saoudite

######## 2026-03-02 The end to deceptive Trumpian diplomacy

With the demise of diplomacy, the conflict has moved from the realm of strategic calculus and realism into one of psychological conditioning.

Thursday’s diplomatic negotiations (26 Feb) – for all the panglossian noise from mediators and negotiators – confirmed the essential impasse. The U.S. demands presented to Iran were:

-   The Acceptance of Zero Enrichment – with only the Tehran Research Reactor allowed to remain.

These demands plainly were formulated to obstruct, rather than facilitate, any diplomatic solution. It reflects a strategy rooted in the viscerally-held presumption of Iranian weakness that, in the face of a U.S. military show of force, was confidently anticipated would surely yield to Iranian capitulation. That hypothesis always was hubristic. It has proved manifestly false as predictably, Tehran rejected the U.S.’ demands:

-   [Iran] insisted on recognition of its right (under the NPT) to enrich uranium for civilian needs.

-   Insisted that any agreement must both include recognition of its right to enrich – and a significant lifting of sanctions. Iran rejects the notion of indefinite restrictions placed upon it.

The mood music at the end of the talks was determinedly upbeat. Iran’s lead negotiator FM Araghchi said: “Today’s round was the best among the rounds so far. We clearly presented our demands”. The Iranian side wanted to make clear for both domestic and overseas audiences that they (at least) had negotiated in earnest.

Reports from the U.S. however, suggest that the decision to attack was already made during the 29 December 2025 Mar-a-Lago summit, between Netanyahu and Trump.

The Iranian leadership well understood that any concessions that Iran might reasonably have offered in the talks would not have given Trump his desired quick political ‘win’. The more so, as Iran insisted that missile defences were non-negotiable.

Whilst placing Iran’s nuclear program at the centre of the talks, U.S. Secretary of State Rubio – ahead of this (last) round of negotiations – nonetheless underlined that from Washington’s perspective, the threat of Iran’s ballistic missiles to be “a fundamental component that cannot be ignored”.

Rubio’s unlikely claim however is consonant with Israeli Hebrew press reporting that after Netanyahu’s December 2025 meeting with Trump, it was Netanyahu who demanded that the U.S. strike Iran’s ballistic missile capabilities — and that striking its missile armoury must take priority over attacks on Iran’s nuclear facilities.

Overall, Trump has remained adamant that whatever the Iranian stand-off outcome – whether achieved through Iranian capitulation or attained by military force – he personally had to exit the confrontation appearing ‘strong’ and having an historic ‘achievement’ under his belt.

Thus, with the demise of diplomacy, the conflict has moved from the realm of strategic calculus and realism into one of psychological conditioning. That is, how to characterise a war without any clear rationale to an increasingly doubting American public. And how best to trigger war in such a way to provide the right psychological advantage to Trump in the lead up to Midterm elections.

Hence, we have the absurd claims by Trump that Iran is working to produce ICBMs with which to attack the U.S. mainland. In this psy-narrative, Trump is not just saving Israel, he is saving America!

These psychological conditioning considerations are forcing a divided Trump Team to move further and further away from reality – scrabbling to find the plausible casus belli to justify a military strike on Iran. Iran, despite Rubio’s claims, does not threaten the U.S. with ICBMs. Iran does not pose a threat to the U.S. at all — nor does it possess nuclear weapons.

“This is an American war of choice. This war – and all its consequences – are owned by the United States. This is Trump’s war. This war was started January 3, 2020, by Donald Trump’s direct order”.

But for Team Trump to say out loud that a strike on Iran is about cementing Israel’s Middle East hegemony, is considered by the Team to be a non-palatable framing for touting ‘another big Middle East war’ to an U.S. electorate adverse to casualties and increasingly sceptical of Trump’s prioritising of Israeli interests.

The dilemma of a lack of rationale for war evidently became so acute that U.S. officials agreed that Israel should strike first, in order to make an Iranian war as ‘politically palatable’ to the domestic audience as possible.

Anna Barsky, writing in Hebrew Ma’ariv last week, argued that the suggestion that Israel ‘goes first’ “… seeps from the ironic to the chilling. Because it outlines a scenario in which Israel functions, consciously and by design, as the opening shot of a move that is intended first and foremost to produce a consciousness effect in the United States”.

The build-up of U.S. forces was first imagined by Trump to be, of itself, sufficiently intimidating psychologically for Iran, that capitulation was pre-ordained. Witkoff said it plainly on Fox News: Trump was confused and frustrated as to why Iran had not already capitulated in face of such an American array of forces near to Iran.

But more than this, for Trump – who lives by grandiose statements and promises of ‘unbelievable American military prowess’ — he was disconcerted to see leaks revealing that, despite the force build-up, the U.S. does not have the military capacity “to sustain [beyond] a four to five day intense aerial assault on Iran – or a week of lower intensity strikes”. He later contradicted his Generals.

Trump’s Generals had provided him with a much more complex picture: They were not willing to guarantee regime change; there would be no certainty about the length of the campaign, and there would be no ability to accurately predict Tehran’s response – or the regional implications.

Likely, Trump, despite the warnings, imagined (or hoped for …) a short bloody war of a few days, after which he could claim ‘Victory’ over the extended debris, and then hope to manoeuvre towards a ceasefire — with media headlines shouting another ‘Trump Peace’.

Wars, of course, are never determined by one side alone. Iran warned that if it was attacked, it would trigger all-out war – not just in Iran, but across the region. On just the first day of the war, this is what Iran has now done, with attacks on U.S. bases across the Persian Gulf – U.S. military bases are on fire and smoking for all to see. Major oil companies have just suspended shipments through the Strait of Hormuz.

Trump – but more precisely Netanyahu – has just triggered a multi front war, with attacks on Israel from many directions (from Iran, Yemen, Iraq …). A long war is more likely than a quick war.

Trump is stuck in Zugzwang. He is compelled to make the move on Iran, but in so moving, aggravates his own situation – ‘Zugzwang’. Reportedly, “many inside the Pentagon believe the U.S. will face generational disaster if it over-commits to a large-scale conflict with Iran [and does not perform ‘brilliantly’]”.

Yet the ideological momentum for a strike originating from the camp of Netanyahu and his diverse auxiliaries and donors in the U.S. proved compelling. These latter see a U.S. strike as a ‘once in a generation opportunity’ to re-cast the geo-strategic map – to remake Iran as a pro-western ally of Israel in a new coalition at war with Islamic radicalism.

Such sentiments – though fantastical – should not be brushed aside lightly. They are deeply embedded in culture and in various eschatological beliefs.

War logistics carry their own momentum: Once the ‘spring’ of military deployment is released, it takes a major effort to wind it back. At the outset to WW1, it proved impossible for the European leadership to reverse the mechanics of deployment – simply owing to the limitations inherent to the railway system. It takes a major effort to bring wide war-momentum to a halt.

In triggering such an existential global trial of strength, Trump will not be able, like King Canute, to ‘command’ the tide to recede. He has started events that will determine our global geo-political future. The future of China, Russia and Iran will hang in the balance, one way or another.

The economic order hangs in the balance too. Trump’s solution to the debt crisis hangs largely on his trade war. The viability of Trump tariffs to mitigate its debt obligations hangs on dollar hegemony. And dollar hegemony largely is a function of preserving the myth of U.S. exceptional military invulnerability.

But with Iran effectively having called Trump’s bluff, he is faced with the humiliating choices of either TACO-ing out (i.e. by twisting some premature call for ceasefire, as in the 12-day war, to proclaim ‘Victory’), or were it to be a longer war, to accept the U.S. military being perceived as a paper tiger and seeing the consequences reverberate across debt markets.

Trump is a truly committed supporter of Israel, but he is within a whisker from sinking his Presidency on this rock.

The views of individual contributors do not necessarily represent those of the Strategic Culture Foundation.

Trump’s Greenland security deal is a Danish sop for keeping NATO united against Russia

West faces chaos as it comes to terms with voting in imbeciles as leaders

Xi Jinping negli Stati Uniti: un nuovo punto di partenza per le relazioni sino-statunitensi

Por que a agência de inteligência de Lula fez uma acusação formal contra a Rússia em carta dirigida à União Europeia?

Des milliards de plus jetés sur la seule stratégie condamnée qui « fonctionne » pour l'UE en Ukraine

NVIDIA RTX PRO 5500: la nuova frontiera della guerra tecnologica tra Stati Uniti e Cina

Verhandlungen durchs Fadenkreuz. 80 Jahre später sieht Deutschland in Russland wieder lieber einen Feind als einen Partner

Pourquoi les ministres ont-ils perdu le contrôle du défaillant ministère britannique des Affaires étrangères ?

As premissas equivocadas por trás do alarde em torno da «guerra contra a Rússia» dos europeus

Le « piège de la crédibilité ». Un piège potentiellement destructeur pour l’Arabie saoudite

######## 2026-06-15 Post-Iran war: the end of an era

Post-Iran war: The end of an era, not to decline, but as a trigger to abrupt change

Trump’s chokehold on oil, tariffs, and tech backfired – forging a new era of self-sufficient economies and generational confrontation.

Professor Michael Hudson, in a recent discussion, takes issue with those who speak today of the ‘decline of the U.S. hegemon’. A decline implies something goes up and down, Hudson says, but it always recovers. “But there’s never been any such thing statistically as a cycle … There’s no decline, it’s a crash” —

“We’re seeing the ending of an era, not a decline, but an abrupt change. And this change is not stemming from without: The ending of the American power did not result from any foreign civil war or other war against American dominance. The end came from the United States itself in trying to juxtapose its interest as hegemon against that of every other country”.

“Every move taken to escape U.S. ‘decline’ has become the mechanism that delivers it. The U.S. went to war to reassert dominance – and proved it could no longer dominate … It waged forty years of maximum pressure to break Iran, and instead forged the very adversary that is now [facing down U.S. domination]”.

In order to preserve America’s power, President Trump turned to trying to impose a series of choke points on the entire world economy “through controlling oil — because everybody needs it”, Hudson says.

That Trump went to war on Iran, on Russia and instituted the attempted chokehold on China, however, does not, in itself, constitute the full matrix of American power-preservation. That matrix is broader. But oil is one of its principal dimensions — as is the connected dollar hegemony. Trump clearly wants to consolidate global energy control in order for the U.S. to determine who may have access to energy (i.e. not Iran, nor Russia, nor Cuba), and those whose energy supply will be squeezed to constrain competition potential (i.e. China).

On the other hand, suppliers of fuel, such as Russia, are sanctioned precisely to try to limit those to whom Russian oil and gas may be supplied. Client states of the imperial power (i.e. Europe) seem surprisingly content to act as the U.S.’ energy-stranglehold enforcer — transforming itself into a prolific sanctions issuer, in its own right.

The other facets (aside from oil dominance) to America’s attempt to establish a chokehold over the rest-of-world economies are firstly, the tariff policy — by which Trump had hoped to use the threat of economically disruptive tariffs to coerce pliable states to lend allegiance to Washington; to acquiesce to U.S. policy alignment; and to provide America with the raw materials it needs — in return for admission to the Washington ‘insider network’ (America’s client states).

In effect there are two Washington ‘insider networks’: One consisting of Trump, his family and extended business partners; and the other being that of Trump’s overseas protégés (Gulf states, etc).

The tariff policy is effectively a polite way to say, ‘we will use tariffs, or an energy squeeze, or a financial squeeze to create disruption to your economies, unless you agree to join the U.S.-led ‘network’’.

Neither tariff nor energy-choke policies have been without their set-backs, however, not least because Iran has refused to comply, and continues to provide oil to China and other Iranian allies.

So, the new ‘leg’ to the strangle-hold policy is the ‘Pax Silica’ initiative. Arnaud Bertrand explains that the Trump Administration has ‘spelt out its ‘syndicate’ purpose explicitly’:

“Countries sign up, align their supply chains with Washington, shut out China (politely referred to as those engaging in “non-market practices” and “unfair dumping”) – and in exchange they get access to the imperial technological ecosystem”.

“Lest there be any ambiguity, Under-Secretary of State Jacob Helberg — an ex-Palantir guy who is the architect behind the initiative — spells it out clearly: Whoever controls “compute and the minerals that feed it” will run the 21st century, and he wants to form a group of “aligned” countries around Washington in a “new economic security consensus” to make sure they’re the ones who do”.

Trump’s ‘Make America Great Again’ war therefore has world-wide implications. The world cannot simply return to the way it was before. Wall Street and ‘the markets’ seem to believe that this is likely and even inevitable (they can envision no different future), but the rest of the world sees the Iran war as marking a systemic change to a new era, precisely because fossil fuels, fertiliser and other allied products are the components that make the world ‘tick’.

The Iran war will prompt greater recognition, throughout the world, that countries need (at minimum) food self-sufficiency to save themselves from U.S. weaponisation of foreign trade in food, oil, fertiliser, and in just about anything that the U.S. can create a choke point for — and weaponise. This implies a return to self-circulating, self-sufficient economies — in contrast to the World Bank ‘export-led’, debt financed model.

Andrey Bezrukov, Professor at the Russian University MGIMO and a former SVR intelligence officer, specifically addressed the challenges of a changing world at the St Petersburg Forum on 3 June 2026. And though he cast his comments in the context of Russia, his remarks apply across the world.

In his speech — which Laura Ru has summarised — Bezrukov argued that Russia has entered a new, prolonged global confrontation with the West. According to him, this conflict represents a fundamental shift in the nature of warfare that will define Russian policy and society for the foreseeable future.

‘Bezrukov emphasized that the current (military) struggle is not primarily about capturing territory, which he described as having lost much of its traditional value. Instead, it is a war of attrition focused on undermining critical systems, including infrastructure, command networks, technology, space assets, biological security, and the information domain … “The West’s strategy in this war is very simple: avoid nuclear collision with us, from which they will emerge as losers. Therefore, they boil the frog on a slow fire”’.

‘He warned that Russia should expect to remain in a state of war for many years, possibly 20 to 30 years. During this period, Russia must learn to coexist with the reality of war, whilst continuing its economic development’.

‘A central theme of his speech was sharp criticism of Russia’s current approach. Bezrukov argued that the country has been too lenient toward its adversaries — “We are slow. We allow [our enemies] too much. They don’t fear us … because many, many red lines that we talked about remained only on paper”’.

‘To adapt to this new reality, Bezrukov called for a fundamental restructuring of the state and economy. He urged the creation of a dual-purpose system capable of pursuing both development and long-term defence. Critical infrastructure — such as data centres, oil storage facilities, and communication hubs — must be buried underground, or protected to the same standards as nuclear power plants. He also stressed the need to close the gap between the military and civilian society, and to adopt more assertive policies. Russia cannot expect a quick return to peacetime conditions and must therefore reorganise society, economy, and strategy accordingly’.

Bezrukov’s speech has drawn much attention for its tone, and for its call for Russia to psychologically and structurally adapt to a generational-long era of confrontation — a theme already addressed at length by Professor Sergei Karaganov.

What these two contributions represent is a changing world trying to re-structure itself in wake of the aggressive face of a declining U.S. hegemon, and looking around for how both to insulate their economies from U.S.’ tariffs, energy, technology and dollar attack on the rest of the world, and concomitantly, to adapt to the new era of asymmetric geo-political war that the Iran war has espoused.

“Iran is fighting for a way of life against people who want to deny them … of the ability to make their own future. This is what the fight is all about. And it is ultimately a moral fight that finds itself translated into an economic fight and a trade fight — and is leading to this [global] split”.

It is this moral, civilisational way-of-being versus the radical Trumpian-U.S. materialist void that likely will come to define our era’s civil and global wars.

The views of individual contributors do not necessarily represent those of the Strategic Culture Foundation.

Donald Trump Energy Iran Middle East New World Order Persian Gulf Trade War United States

West faces chaos as it comes to terms with voting in imbeciles as leaders

NVIDIA RTX PRO 5500: la nuova frontiera della guerra tecnologica tra Stati Uniti e Cina

Trump’s Greenland security deal is a Danish sop for keeping NATO united against Russia

Xi Jinping negli Stati Uniti: un nuovo punto di partenza per le relazioni sino-statunitensi

Por que a agência de inteligência de Lula fez uma acusação formal contra a Rússia em carta dirigida à União Europeia?

Le « piège de la crédibilité ». Un piège potentiellement destructeur pour l’Arabie saoudite

Der Preis für Arroganz. Für die Einführung einer Preisobergrenze für Kraftstoff wird Deutschland €2,5 Milliarden ausgeben

L’arte di non vincere: Iran, Ucraina e la geometria della prima metà del 2026

As premissas equivocadas por trás do alarde em torno da «guerra contra a Rússia» dos europeus

######## 2026-07-28 The war's back is broken

The U.S. ultimately will have to capitulate, with the result that Iran becomes a regional power.

Trump ordered the U.S. military not to carry out new strikes on Iran Friday night, despite approving earlier a “Gates of Hell massive attack” on Iran.

The U.S. has now requested a new temporary ceasefire with Iran and is seeking a return to the collapsed and suspended MoU, with discussions to include Yemen, and with Trump seeking to make AnsarAllah a party to the negotiations.

Clearly Trump is angry, and fears that that the war is consuming his Presidency (and his legacy). Iran comprehensively rejected all negotiations throughout this last week and confirmed it will not start negotiations under any circumstances. Put simply, why would Iran consent to give the U.S. time to regroup and rearm before launching another round of strikes on Iran when it has the U.S. ‘on the run’.

Will Schryver notes that rumours are swirling that the Pentagon is pressuring Trump to call off the war with Iran because the U.S. has nearly exhausted its stockpiles of air-defence interceptors and stand-off strike missiles. The President’s top aides are also uneasy about the prospect of a widening war in the Middle East, the alienation of key Gulf allies vulnerable to further Iranian attack, and the coming energy crunch. “Few if any in Mr. Trump’s inner circle believed the plan to escalate was wise, said the two people briefed”, the New York Times reports.

It seems too that jiggery-pokery over the exact fuel supply situation in the U.S. may have played a part in Trump’s backtrack. Larry Johnson reports that –

“[A] brief prepared by Karl Miller investigates how the U.S. military’s covert fuel procurement and export operations are depleting the nation’s diesel and jet fuel reserves, particularly during a period when domestic stocks are already critically low”.

“much of this (covert) fuel export is routed through opaque channels, such as the Rotterdam trans-shipment hub, where the final military or foreign allocation is not publicly reconciled, leaving the American economy exposed to shortage risks – whilst military and foreign operations – “notably Israel” – receive priority access”.

This report by Miller seems to connect to the U.S. authorities’ open manipulation of oil benchmarks designed to convince markets that there is no danger of fuel shortages arising from the ongoing emergency release from the SPR (Strategic Petroleum Reserves) of 172 million barrels that was initiated to counter supply shocks from the conflict with Iran.

Whilst the statuary security floor is 250 million barrels (the current level is around 300), nonetheless the narrative is being promoted that the drawdown can go even further (to 70 mbpd). But can it? What is the minimum level the strategic oil reserves can go to? It is more complicated than just one big vat of crude that has a specific level. The SPR is composed of many caverns, and contains different types of crude oil, that are being drawn down at different rates, with some caverns likely to collapse if drained too far. In short, nobody knows how far is too far. It’s all guesswork.

With the back broken to Trump’s military assault the only path back to negotiations would be to offer front-loaded real concessions. But even were Trump to do this, would he be believed? And can Trump’s mental state sustain such implied humiliation?

The main obstacle on the path back to negotiations with Iran is that he and his inner circle understand Iran back-to-front.

They aver to believe that they are dealing with an intransigent and hardline leadership, whilst Iranians as a whole long for an exit.

This is wrong; it is the other way around. It is the leadership that is pragmatic, and it is ‘the street’ that is overall more hard-line and demands vengeance. And demands to know why there should be negotiations at all.

Then again, Team Trump and his Fox News cheerleaders have slipped from the earlier U.S. vision of itself as a redeemer nation into a radical Manichaean ‘characterisation of itself’, Professor Michael Vlahos writes, in which –

“American “good news” has been replaced by the ever-present spectre of Evil and the threat of force. The holy words, Freedom and Democracy, while still chanted, have become a hollow mantra. The American “gospel” no longer preaches about bringing redemption and expiation: it is now concerned with enforcement and punishment. The volte-face came in an instant, on 9/11 and with Guantanamo”.

The problem then centres on attitude: How is it possible to negotiate or talk to the embodiment of evil (as Trump terms the Iranians)? It isn’t possible, of course. That was the point to casting enemies in such dark terms. It precludes true mediation. It precludes a solution that can be viewed as the elevation to power for “one of the most evil people in history”, leading a “gang of bloodthirsty thugs”. It distils policy to the search for dominance over the ‘otherness’.

The West exhibits one particular way of thinking that it deems to represent the essence of that which is Human. This mode of thinking (often termed Apollonian) links to Patriarchy, law, and vertical top-to-bottom secular, rational, mechanistic thinking. It offers little room for ‘betweenness’. Things are either ‘A’ or ‘non-A’.

However, another sphere (often termed the Dionysian) expresses the energetic duality in both nature and in the human – male and female; order and exuberant transgression; and of rectitude and degeneracy. They form the poles within consciousness that both co-inhere in us, and that co-constitute each other. (Dionysian logos may be viewed perhaps as the shadow, or even of the revolt against Apollo).

And then there is Persephone (the underside to the Dionysian ‘shadow’) expressing the chthonic, feminine existence. Here there is no male pole, but only a goddess radiating earthiness and the female principle of reproduction, the process of growth and of caring, and of underworld knowledge (called intuition) – symbolising the cyclical Life of Aphrodite, decay, death and ultimate renewal.

Consciousness however, mostly expresses the human quality from one particular orientation. Nonetheless, all civilisations draw from the full diversity of such components to consciousness that – one way or another – respond to a particular civilisation.

To think in one culture is to think in one way; however to belong to a different culture, a different ethnic group, a different religion – means that thinking will differ. Yet we all remain human.

So the imperial hubris of Trump is beginning to face the fact that he will find it hard – possibly impossible – to find a solution to the Middle East, because to see the world from the purely Apollonian perspective is essentially male and exclusivist and fails to understand ‘otherness’; but rather relies on exceptional privilege. It simply does not – and cannot – recognise a plurality of minds.

The U.S. has lost the war. By adopting such uncompromising Manichaean language, Trump effectively has severed himself from any prospective diplomatic solution. By widening the war (Lebanon, Yemen, Syria and Iraq) he has severely complicated any diplomatic track. All elements are interrelated, yet they also have separate agendas. Thus a solution involves a complex matrix of issues, rather than a binary dispute between the U.S. and Iran alone. The U.S. ultimately will have to capitulate, with the result that Iran becomes a regional power (strengthening Russia and China), whilst the Region slowly will come to terms with this new West Asian reality.

The views of individual contributors do not necessarily represent those of the Strategic Culture Foundation.

Por que a agência de inteligência de Lula fez uma acusação formal contra a Rússia em carta dirigida à União Europeia?

Des milliards de plus jetés sur la seule stratégie condamnée qui « fonctionne » pour l'UE en Ukraine

NVIDIA RTX PRO 5500: la nuova frontiera della guerra tecnologica tra Stati Uniti e Cina

Verhandlungen durchs Fadenkreuz. 80 Jahre später sieht Deutschland in Russland wieder lieber einen Feind als einen Partner

As premissas equivocadas por trás do alarde em torno da «guerra contra a Rússia» dos europeus

Xi Jinping negli Stati Uniti: un nuovo punto di partenza per le relazioni sino-statunitensi

Le « piège de la crédibilité ». Un piège potentiellement destructeur pour l’Arabie saoudite

######## 2026-05-16 Israel's war to the root may unravel America

Both Trump’s Iran war and the closely connected Israeli war for Jewish hegemony across the Middle East are unravelling fast.

Both Trump’s Iran war and the closely connected Israeli war for Jewish hegemony across the Middle East (termed ‘Permanent Security’ in Israeli military vernacular) are unravelling fast.

Iran is standing defiant in the face of Trump and Israel’s threats, leaving Trump gambling the entire U.S. economy and its global strategic standing on conjuring up a decisive ‘win’ over Iran — however deceitful and Pyrrhic that ‘win’ might prove to be.

Trump has now arrived for the summit in China (reportedly with little groundwork preparation ahead of the visit). Possibly he relies on his usual hubristic notion — that China needs the U.S. more than the U.S. needs China — and he will tell Beijing that ‘you (Xi) have to instruct Iran’ that time is moving on, and that it should capitulate to the U.S..

Well that’s not going to happen. China supports Iran’s fight for sovereignty and shares with Russia the Iranian objective of seeing the U.S. gone from the Middle East. They want instead a Gulf-led security architecture to replace the American one. Moscow concurs.

Maybe Xi — in politest of language, of course — will tell Trump, rather, that it is Washington that should concede to Iran. The longer he delays, the harder any U.S. course correction will prove to be.

In any event, despite the innate Trumpian hubris, the U.S. President arrives in Beijing bereft of ‘big wins’ (if Venezuela is counted as a gimmick, rather than a strategic victory). Contrarily and more significantly, Beijing understands that the U.S. hovers at the brink of an economic inflationary catastrophe, whereas China largely is insulated from the coming global energy shock and is in price deflation, rather than experiencing inflation.

Put bluntly, there is almost nothing that Xi wants from the U.S., but in the interests of harmony, they may buy some soya beans (to save U.S. farmers) and perhaps some airplanes. (Even though soya beans are not really required by China which has been purchasing them easily from Brazil).

Trump has taken with him to China an entourage of U.S. oligarchs — presumably in the expectation that China will give him business valued in several ‘billions’; but China’s response may be somewhat scant. They are angry, reportedly, at the games the U.S. Treasury Secretary has been playing with sanctions on Chinese firms, the seizure of Chinese oil tankers, and the obvious attempt by Trump to squeeze China out from the Western Hemisphere.

What looms in the backdrop however, is darker: America’s collapsing standing as the unipolar hegemon — and the consequential global instability. The Iran war has provided the world with an object lesson of a major world power stuck in a conceptual rut from the Cold War era. One that refused to see the writing on the wall of a tectonic change that required it to ‘move on’ from its ‘end of history’ complacency, though all the signs of a shift to another ‘way of war’ had been present since early this century.

The turning point came with the abundance of cheap and easily available tech components.

The U.S., as the Cold War began, chose a strategy of outspending the USSR – by going for high-end, high-cost weaponry – with a main focus being on air-power and mass aerial bombardment.

That approach, at the time, had seemed justified by the subsequent Soviet implosion. This collapse was presumed to have been triggered by the American maximal spend that had over-stretched the USSR (though the collapse is now well understood to have been more a matter of a more complex internal corrosion from within).

The paradigm of western reliance on a preponderance of air power delivered by hugely expensive airframes has been blown apart and demonstrated to be ineffective by Iran’s asymmetric missile and naval warfare using weapons costing a few hundred dollars versus U.S. defence interceptors costing tens of millions.

The entire world can see the main lessons emerging from the Iran war: Firstly, that the western defence posture is as outdated as the dodo. The Establishment fell asleep, believing that the ever more billions of dollars ploughed into the Military Industrial Complex would give the U.S. a military edge that crucially would also provide the underpinning to its dollar hegemony to print more money for more weapons.

In practice however, it yielded massive corporate corruption and functionally poor, yet hugely expensive, armaments.

Of course, it is horses for courses — but up against more revolutionary adversaries, it is the latter who are out-innovating and out-manoeuvring western powers. All can see it, and are already adjusting.

China can see how small, fleeter Iranian naval assets ran rings around the large lumbering naval vessels of the U.S. Navy. The lessons naturally will be applied to Taiwan, should the U.S. seek to exert naval pressure on China in the Taiwan context.

Russia too will have noticed how a carefully graduated and selectively targeted missile offensive provided Iran with deterrence vis-à-vis Israel. Moscow likely will be thinking in these terms in respect to missiles of British, French and German origin that have been striking deep into Russia, whilst using NATO airspace and intelligence facilitation.

The accelerating global perception of the U.S.’ decline however, rests on more than just its failure to adapt to Iran’s asymmetrical war. More significant even than the sense of cognitive dissonance reigning in the White House is the perception that Trump is a full partner to Israel’s predations across the region.

The U.S. bequeathed Israel the same doctrine of air war dominance, underpinned by ultra expensive U.S. air frames that were intended to give Israel a ‘qualitative edge’ in maintaining its regional primacy. Israel’s failure in Iran, of its flailing conflict with Hizbullah, and of the unfinished war in Gaza, are the evidence of the failure of the approach — not of success.

It is worth noting that before the Israeli shift toward the U.S. ‘way of war’, the founder of the Israeli state and its first PM, Ben Gurion’s defence doctrine for Israel was different.

Ben Gurion emphasised that Israel was geographically a small state; with a small population and limited economic resources. In such circumstances, it would not be able to afford a large standing professional army. It would need a small professional army, supported when necessary by a large cadre of reservists.

Ben Gurion grounded his argument on the need for Israel to have, as well as a defence force, a strong economy to provide for the community and the state — all of which reinforced the need for a small army. He also assumed the Clausewitzian stance that ‘war is the continuation of politics by other means’ and not an end in itself, but a part of the political game.

In Israel, since 7 October 2023 however, as Israel military strategist Colonel Udi Evental, in a series of posts, has underlined – “the link between politics and war reversed itself by 180 degrees [since Ben Gurion’s time]”.

“Peace has vanished from the lexicon and become a term for weakness ahead of Election Day. The prime minister and his coalition, each for their own reasons, are digging in their heels in the hope that Trump will allow them to return to war in Gaza, Lebanon, and Iran, in order to continue “striking,” “destroying,” and “crushing”.

“The threshold of paranoia was crossed on 7 October”. Professor Omer Bartov has said “that Hamas’s attack, framed as a Holocaust-like act … gradually [became] the glue binding Israeli society. A historical event transformed into an imminent threat: Hamas are Nazis. [And] criticizing Israel’s [military responses] is antisemitic”.

Bartov argues that 7 October caused Israelis to understand the Holocaust not just as something that happened in the past, but as “something always at the threshold; that here will be another Holocaust if [Israel] doesn’t meet every threat with full force and destroy it at the root”.

Israeli professor Professor Idan Landau elaborates that by adopting a stance of ‘Permanent War’,

“there is no end game; the Enemy is an undifferentiated mass of [various] Guises of Amalek. The Gaza genocide has set a shocking new standard of indifference to civilian casualties: All targets are criminalized by association to your favourite Amalek (currently the IRGC), and we stopped bothering about substantiating this association with actual facts; declaring it so – makes it so”.

“Within Israeli security thinking, there has always been a latent current seeking to expand Israel’s security borders. To a large extent, the pre-emptive approach is an operational expression of this concept. Thus, a security-ideological coalition has now emerged in Israel, which utilises a defensive-preventive narrative to realise a messianic agenda of ‘Greater Israel’”, Col. Evantal explains.

This frank account of Israel’s current policy lies at the heart of the greater catastrophe facing America — one extending well beyond the reputational loss from a botched, war of deliberate choice against Iran:

For Trump has partnered and closely associated the U.S. with a genocidal and ultimately messianic Israeli-formulated ‘way of war’ to destroy Iran and the Resistance, and to consolidate the Israeli government’s ambition to displace or ‘destroy at root’ native populations. Its perpetration disgusts the ‘world majority’. This represents the greater cloud looming over America’s global reputation. Trump is responsible. ‘Permanent war’ is a form of war crime.

Netanyahu, in recent days, told 60 Minutes that the (permanent) war is not over, and that it must continue:

“I think [we] accomplished a great deal, but it’s not over because there’s still nuclear material, enriched Uranium that has to be taken out of Iran. There are still enrichment sites that need to be dismantled, there are still proxies that Iran supports, ballistic missiles they still want to produce. Now we’ve degraded a lot of it, but all that is still there and there’s work to be done”.

Netanyahu doesn’t care for the consequences for the U.S. economy (apparently neither does Trump), nor for the political instability in the U.S. that may result. He does not care either, for the Gulf States that will suffer and perhaps be destroyed if the U.S. resumes the war in a massive way.

He cares only for a Hebraic hegemony (and his political survival) — even if (Gentile) America pays the burden of reputational and economic price.

The posts by Colonel Evental went viral in the Hebrew-speaking sphere. Evantal argues that the only way to save Israel is to return to the Ben Gurion original formula — Israel must live within its borders and must understand that military action should be adjunct to finding political solutions.

The views of individual contributors do not necessarily represent those of the Strategic Culture Foundation.

West faces chaos as it comes to terms with voting in imbeciles as leaders

Trump’s Greenland security deal is a Danish sop for keeping NATO united against Russia

Por que a agência de inteligência de Lula fez uma acusação formal contra a Rússia em carta dirigida à União Europeia?

NVIDIA RTX PRO 5500: la nuova frontiera della guerra tecnologica tra Stati Uniti e Cina

Pourquoi les ministres ont-ils perdu le contrôle du défaillant ministère britannique des Affaires étrangères ?

Xi Jinping negli Stati Uniti: un nuovo punto di partenza per le relazioni sino-statunitensi

Le « piège de la crédibilité ». Un piège potentiellement destructeur pour l’Arabie saoudite

Gli Stati Uniti varano una nuova “strategia di massima pressione” contro l’Iran ma il conto lo pagano i cittadini europei

As premissas equivocadas por trás do alarde em torno da «guerra contra a Rússia» dos europeus

######## 2026-04-27 The mechanistic fallacy

Washington will not be able to think straight about Iran, and will opt for the wrong tactics.

Some fifteen years ago I wrote that western reliance on its lens of secular rationality was no longer adequate as a means to understand the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. It was becoming obvious — even then — that the future of the region would be one of wars increasingly defined by religious symbols: i.e. Al-Aqsa versus the Third Temple.

Since then, things have moved on: In Israel, national elections in November 2022 brought a new leadership committed to founding Israel on the ‘Land of (Greater) Israel’; displacing the non-Jewish population and implementing Halachic law.

The new government’s platform was an expression of an eschatological and messianic purpose with a teleology of pursuing a path toward messianic Redemption. It was not secular, nor couched in Enlightenment tones.

My point then — and still is — that Western secular mechanistic ways of thinking will misunderstand these fundamental shifts. The West insists to apply its westernised conceptual precepts to something — Messianism and the pursuit of Redemption — that lies outside the frame of today’s post-modern western consciousness. We understand well enough power politics, but eschatology largely is a closed-book to most western seculars.

The bottom line is that no purpose is served in trying to convince those absorbed by a messianic vision that their solution consists of a two-state political structure in historic Palestine. The former actually welcome Armageddon and the defeat it would portend for non-Jews.

Nor can this be viewed as a passing phase, or a whim. Messianism has been a prominent, yet fluctuating, impulse in Judaism since Sabbatai Zevi (1660s) and Jacob Franks (18th century). (Some of its thinking filtered into European notions too, during the later Enlightenment period).

Jewish historian and scholar, Gershom Scholem, correctly predicted that religious Zionism — which in recent decades has aligned with Likud and the settler movement — operates as a “militant,” “apocalyptic,” and “radical” messianic movement that tries to “force the end” by demanding that the state engage in, for example, massive territorial control — i.e. they demand territorial conquest for end-of-times reasons.

Perhaps unsurprisingly, western mechanistic rationality however, has proved to be as much at a loss in its grasp of what motivates Iran as it is in understanding today’s Israel. The literal approach simply amputates any awareness of Iran’s deeper resistance and revolutionary anima.

Rather, we choose to project onto Iran our image of the 19^(th) century nation-state – – the concept of a state ruled by top-down, centralised government as the dominant, sometimes autocratic, vehicle of rule over which wider polities once were governed through other principles of legitimacy.

In an interview in 1979 with Richard Falk, Ayatollah Khomeinei said plainly that the Revolution was a civilizational rather than a national triumph. He stressed that he felt that the basic community for all people in the Islamic world was civilizational and religious – – and not national and territorial. Khomeini explained that territorial sovereign states built around national identity did not form a natural community in the Middle East in the way they did in Europe.

His insistent theme was to express the view that a government consistent with Islamic values could not be reliably established on democratic principles without it being subject to unelected religious guidance from top Islamic clerical scholars as the source of highest political authority.

The repression of Islam (forced secularisation) and the destruction of the Caliphate pursued by Mustafa Kamal in the early 1900s had led Seyyed Qutub to preach revolutionary vanguardism until his execution in 1966. Qutb’s writings, but more particularly his Social Justice in Islam — coinciding with mass protests throughout the Muslim world at the partition of Palestine in 1947 — laid the principal groundwork for the revolutionary thinking that would emerge in Iran.

For Iranians, this was a call to a return to an earlier way-of-being, with a storied lineage, reaching far back — one that reflects a more spiritual and inward transformation of the human: A world of hierarchical modes of consciousness and a disposition to fight against oppression, and to care for the dispossessed.

Thus, to view Iran through the nation-state lens is to misread Iran. The limits of mechanistic thinking make it impossible for outsiders to grasp or predict the way ahead for Iran. Today, young Iranians are returning enthusiastically to the ethos encompassed in the 1979 Revolution. There is a new energy apparent in Iran — and it is radical. And its reverberations are spreading well beyond the borders of Iran.

If we in the West want to hear and understand, then it would be wise to first hold up a mirror to ourselves. Are we truly so secular and rationally strategic as we believe?

U.S. military historian Michael Vlahos, in a long essay — America is a Religion — points out that the U.S. itself is far from unaffected by the currents of messianic idealism, millenarianism and Manichaeism – – “This is an enduring theme whose deep current flows into Christianity”:

“Since its founding, the United States has pursued, with burning religious fervour, a higher calling to redeem humanity, punish the wicked, and christen a golden millennium on earth. America has steadfastly hewed to its unique vision of divine mission as “God’s New Israel”.

Of course, American ‘Civil Religion’ is inextricably linked with the Reformation, Calvinist Christianity, and Protestantism. “Although its scriptural reading became secular in the Progressive era, the American religion still remained tethered to its formative roots”, Vlahos argues.

“Hence, America is not only “messianic” in character — as in, “possessed by passion and zeal” — but manifests an implicitly biblical vision proclaiming its faith in the predestined nature of its passage. A “chosen nation” divinely elected to act in the name of Providence as the world’s Redeemer”.

However, as Vlahos tells it — like with the Zionists in Israel, in the last election — the U.S. had its moment of metamorphosis: It was triggered by 60 years (1963-2023) of repeated and unrequited battlefield débâcles:

“Each episode [that was] waged to fulfil the prophecy of a global democratic millennium—and with each time, that dream slipped away”.

Consequently, writes Vlahos, American messianism slid into “a Manichaean caricature of itself – in which American “good news” has been replaced by the ever-present spectre of Evil and the threat of force. The holy words, Freedom and Democracy, whilst still chanted, have become a hollow mantra”.

“The American “gospel” no longer preaches about bringing redemption and expiation: it is now concerned with enforcement and punishment.

“Almost overnight, America ditched “international rules” and “civilized norms”—and instead built out an archipelago of torture and arbitrary incarceration, without oversight or appeal”.

Today, the U.S. is experiencing deep polarisation at home, whilst still pursuing conflicts overseas whose aims U.S. leaders try to connect to the redemptive narratives coined for service in the domestic struggle (i.e. validating the ‘Peace through Strength‘ meme) via the war on Iran. The U.S. establishment thus links ‘victory’ in a foreign war as the means to restore its political standing domestically and internationally. Michael Vlahos calls this duality “a mutually destructive dynamic”.

It virtually assures that Washington will not be able to think straight about Iran, and will opt for the wrong tactics.

The views of individual contributors do not necessarily represent those of the Strategic Culture Foundation.

West faces chaos as it comes to terms with voting in imbeciles as leaders

Trump’s Greenland security deal is a Danish sop for keeping NATO united against Russia

Por que a agência de inteligência de Lula fez uma acusação formal contra a Rússia em carta dirigida à União Europeia?

NVIDIA RTX PRO 5500: la nuova frontiera della guerra tecnologica tra Stati Uniti e Cina

Pourquoi les ministres ont-ils perdu le contrôle du défaillant ministère britannique des Affaires étrangères ?

As premissas equivocadas por trás do alarde em torno da «guerra contra a Rússia» dos europeus

Xi Jinping negli Stati Uniti: un nuovo punto di partenza per le relazioni sino-statunitensi

Le « piège de la crédibilité ». Un piège potentiellement destructeur pour l’Arabie saoudite

Gli Stati Uniti varano una nuova “strategia di massima pressione” contro l’Iran ma il conto lo pagano i cittadini europei

Der Preis für Arroganz. Für die Einführung einer Preisobergrenze für Kraftstoff wird Deutschland €2,5 Milliarden ausgeben