######## 2025-11-03 US foreign policy in contention

U.S. foreign policy in contention: Is Trump allowed to agree a deal with China (but not Russia or Iran)?

The old comfortable world is not coming back. The young – if anything – are much more radical.

U.S. foreign policy, drenched in the hubris that the U.S. won the Cold War militarily (in Afghanistan); won it economically (liberal markets); and culturally too, (Hollywood) — and therefore rightly deserves, as Trump puts it, the “fun” of “running both the country the world”. Well, that policy is now in contention for the first time.

This month, the RAND Organisation, an institution whose shadow has long lain across U.S. foreign policy matters, has challenged the Cold War hubris in respect to China.

Though the report focuses on America’s preoccupation with the threat of China’s ascendency, the implications of questioning the doctrine — that no challenger to U.S. hegemony, financial or military, can be tolerated — does cut to the absolute heart of U.S. foreign policy practice.

The key finding from RAND is that “China and the U.S. should strive to achieve a modus vivendi” together through “each accepting the political legitimacy of the other, constraining efforts to undermine each other, at least to a reasonable degree”.

To propose that each side should acknowledge and accept the legitimacy of the other, rather than see ‘the other’ as a malignant threat, would in itself represent a small revolution.

Were it to apply to China, then why not to Russia or Iran too?

More telling: RAND prescribes that the U.S. leadership in particular should reject notions of ‘absolute victory’ over China – as well as to accept the One China Policy by stopping provoking China through military-minded visits to Taiwan designed specifically to keep China threatened and on edge.

This comes on the eve of Trump’s scheduled meeting with President Xi Jinping in Kuala Lumpur, in which Trump is seeking a ‘trade deal’ with China that reaffirms his dominance and gives him space for his radical plans to re-structure America’s financial landscape – if he can.

Can the pivot proposed by RAND truly be accepted in DC? RAND does possess real weight in Washington – so does this report reflect a split in the structural architecture of the Dark State? Other signs (in the Middle East/ West Asia) point in the opposite direction.

The U.S. has been running the same foreign policy playbook for decades. So, is the U.S. even capable of such radical cultural transformation, as advocated by RAND?

The West is in decline – yes. But does that make it easier, or harder, for it to accept some RAND servings of common sense? It does seem, in respect to China, that a technical view has formed within U.S. defence circles that ‘no way’ can the U.S. take on China militarily.

Yet any profound change takes time to fully register and can be overturned by unexpected events. There are a number of potential black swans circling us, at this time.

And who would lead such a change in national self-perception? Would real (institutional) change emerge from top-down, or come from bottom up?

By ‘bottom up’, could this emerge as a populist ‘America First’-driven impulse resulting from Trump and the GOP losing the House at the Midterms?

In one sense, RAND is clearly right that beyond hyping a piece of short-term theatre, the U.S. no longer can win an economic or tech war – or a military conflict with China – in the longer-term. An uneasy truce seems, for now, to be in prospect.

The Wall Street Journal has suggested a different perspective to the usual Washington consensus: “During his first term, Trump often frustrated Xi Jinping – with his freewheeling mix of threats and bonhomie”.

“This time the Chinese leader believes he has cracked the code”, the WSJ writes: Xi has thrown out traditional diplomatic practice and tailored a new one specifically for Trump. After long preparation, the WSJ argues, Xi has decided to hit back even harder, in a bid to gain leverage over Trump, whilst projecting strength and unpredictability — qualities he believes the U.S. president admires.

Seemingly, China is intent on asserting itself forcefully. It wants to drive the dynamic, and is confident that this hardline approach will gain a resoundingly positive response within China (— and in the rest of the world, the WSJ neglects to acknowledge).

The question is how might Xi’s riposte play-out in the U.S.? Yet the big question remains unanswered: Who controls U.S. foreign policy anyway?

One obvious answer after the Budapest (no) summit débacle is that Trump has little or no agency in this corner of foreign policy. He is wholly co-opted. And was sent a bunt ‘reminder’ to this effect, from the ‘powers that be’ – ‘No normalisation with Moscow’.

Ceasefire, ‘yes’; because a frozen conflict, unencumbered by restrictions on Ukrainian re-armament, would give the NATO Establishment scope to redefine the conflict – from one of NATO’s strategic defeat to a ‘holding’ victory, through promulgating the narrative of a Russian economy progressively weakening.

This contrived formulation holds out — at least in the minds of Europeans – the promise of some final ceasefire at a later stage, by imposing continuing serial costs on Russia that finally compel that ceasefire.

The ‘fly in soup’ to this scam is that Moscow absolutely will not agree to a frozen conflict — and anyway sees the battlespace working towards Russian victory.

The reality is that the Ukraine final outcome will be whatever ‘it is’. The Europeans know it, but cannot say it because they cannot orient to a world in which their way of seeing it does not prevail. If this Luddism be counted as western ‘leverage’, then it is ephemeral and will fade as economic realities bite in Europe.

What then accounts for Trump’s Russian débacle? On the one hand, it was the veto of pro-Israel mega-donors, for whom a militarily hegemonic U.S. – supporting Israel – must be preserved at all costs. Israel cannot exist without it. Many, if not all Team Trump, have been imposed from the outside – by certain zealot donors and likeminded billionaires. (Trump was surprisingly candid about this reality during his address at the Knesset last month).

Some of these Trump donors are also part of the (separate) Wall Street faction who, besides being pro-Zionist, have wider financial concerns in mind. The U.S. financial system desperately requires reinforcing with collateral (i.e. assets having inherent value: such as oil, natural resources, etc.) as underpinning to an over-leveraged U.S. shadow banking system.

This Wall Street (Frankish) pro-Israel faction still harks after a reprise of ‘Russia in the nineties’ (however unlikely). But they share also, with the main pro-Israeli donor block, Israel’s determination to keep Russia out of the Middle East; and extended by the Ukraine conflict. On 7 October this year, Netanyahu begged Putin not to arm Iran, reportedly threatening retaliation in Ukraine.

The China trade deal calculus – for such donors – is wholly different. Should Trump agree a ‘strong’ trade agreement with China, it would be seen in the White House as undercutting the ability of Canada to assemble cheap component goods derived from China and elsewhere – for transhipment and sale into the U.S. market. A China deal would give Trump additional leverage, heading into the 2026 USMCA (CUSMA) dissolution phase.

The latter is important as Trump seeks to fold the whole western hemisphere – from Argentina to north Antarctic — into the U.S. ‘fold’.

Agreement with China on rare earth export controls however, would be clearly crucial to the entire U.S. tech sector. China’s grip on the rare earth supply chain is not just dominant — it’s nearly unassailable. With 70% of global rare earths (a 100% in a few metals) and with 94% refining capacity, Beijing has prepared and built a fortress around one of the most critical inputs to modern technology.

There is another reason – perhaps even an overriding reason – why the U.S. needs a ‘rescue’ by China, urgently.

The legal basis for Trump’s global tariff onslaught has strayed ever further away from the ‘economic emergency’ exceptionality – to the U.S. Constitution’s clarity that the authority for raising of revenues, in principle, falls to Congress – and is not a prerequisite of the Executive. (Tariffs, it will be argued, are revenues.)

Clearly, Trump has stretched the ‘economic emergency’ justification to the limit. Initial tariff cases will come before the Supreme Court very shortly (1 November). Were the Court to find against Trump, it could order all tariff revenues so far gathered to be repaid.

How would this impact on the foreign policy of the United States, given that tariffs have been instrumentalised to force states to pay huge sums to the U.S. (in respect to inward capital investment)?

It is too early to tell. But in the case of China, Trump and the U.S. badly need a deal. Trump’s economic policy more generally (unless reversed by the Supreme Court) marks a permanent change in the economic and geopolitical landscape. There’s no going back to the ex-ante as it existed before November 2024.

The once-prevailing globally interconnected order of things is being swept away, and a new one of standalone economic blocks with their own internal alliances, supply chains and technologies is taking its place.

In other foreign policy areas such a radical change in direction is less likely – at least for now. The pro-Israeli ruling billionaires behind Trump will stop at nothing in their efforts in support of Israel in its goal of imposing a Greater Israel founded amidst a new Nakba.

But in the longer-term, pro-Israel dominance over foreign policy is less assured. Support amongst young Americans for Israel is bleeding out. The Congress will remain ‘bought’ by AIPAC, and Trump has irreversibly defined himself as an unwavering supporter of Israel. A breach between Trump and his MAGA base has begun. And Israel has begun to panic about the America First, anti-Israeli vibe shift taking place amongst young Americans.

In spite of possible re-districting of constituencies in America’s South prompted by challenges to the 1965 Voter Registration Act (that may give the GOP an extra 12 House seats), Trump could still lose the Midterms. This means that effectively Trump’s agenda would have but one year to run – until overwhelmed by Democratic obstruction, investigations or even impeachment efforts begin.

The reason for Trump’s rush is plain. Of course, none of this may occur, and the U.S. (and European) ruling strata may sink back into their cushions, with a sigh of relief that the old agenda can be revived. But complacency would be misplaced. The old comfortable world is not coming back. The young – if anything – are much more radical.

The views of individual contributors do not necessarily represent those of the Strategic Culture Foundation.

West faces chaos as it comes to terms with voting in imbeciles as leaders

Trump’s Greenland security deal is a Danish sop for keeping NATO united against Russia

Xi Jinping negli Stati Uniti: un nuovo punto di partenza per le relazioni sino-statunitensi

The new world order which punishes Americans is helped get off the ground by Trump

NVIDIA RTX PRO 5500: la nuova frontiera della guerra tecnologica tra Stati Uniti e Cina

Por que a agência de inteligência de Lula fez uma acusação formal contra a Rússia em carta dirigida à União Europeia?

Pourquoi les ministres ont-ils perdu le contrôle du défaillant ministère britannique des Affaires étrangères ?

Le Curili e l’ordine del dopoguerra: le radici storiche e giuridiche della sovranità russa

Cinquantanove anni di ASEAN: il Sud-Est asiatico come pilastro della stabilità in un mondo multipolare

Oreshnik sobre Kiev, la bomba de relojería de Ormuz, Pekín como nuevo centro del mundo

Política externa dos EUA em disputa: Trump pode fechar um acordo com a China (mas não com a Rússia ou o Irã)?

La politica estera degli Stati Uniti in discussione: Trump può stipulare un accordo con la Cina (ma non con la Russia o l'Iran)?

As premissas equivocadas por trás do alarde em torno da «guerra contra a Rússia» dos europeus

######## 2025-08-26 Trump as Myth

It seems that Putin has indeed succeeded in finding an exit out from the imposed western cordon sanitaire.

Trump’s ascent to a portion of the ‘Mythic’ has become only too evident. As John Greer has observed:

“It’s becoming difficult even for the most dyed-in-the-wool rationalist to go on believing that Trump’s political career can be understood in the prosaic terms of ‘politics as usual’”.

Trump the man, of course, is in no way mythic. He’s an elderly, slightly infirm, American real estate oligarch, with lowbrow tastes and an unusually robust ego.

“The ancient Greek word muthos originally meant ‘story’. As the philosopher Sallust wrote, myths are things that never happen but always are”.

Later, myth came to mean stories hinting at a kernel of inner meaning. This doesn’t imply a requirement to be factual; yet it is this latter dimension that gives Trump “his extraordinary grip on the collective imagination of our time”, Greer suggests. He comes back literally from everything thrown to destroy him.

“Rationalists in Hitler’s day were consistently confounded by the way the latter brushed aside obstacles and followed his trajectory to the bitter end. Jung pointed out in his prescient 1936 essay Wotan, that much of Hitler’s power over the collective mind of Europe came boiling up out of the realms of myth and archetype”

Wotan in myth is a restless wanderer who creates unrest and stirs up strife – now here, now there – and works magic. Jung thought it piquant to a degree that an ancient God of storm and frenzy – the long quiescent Wotan – should come to life in the German Youth Movement.

Well, Putin seemingly paid due attention to the psychology underlying Trump’s sudden request to meet. The Russians treated Trump in a very respectful, courteous and friendly fashion. They implicitly acknowledged Trump’s sense of an inner mythic quality – which Steve Witkoff, his longstanding friend, has described as Trump’s deep conviction that his ‘commanding presence’ alone can bend people to his will (and to America’s interests). Witkoff added that he agreed with this assessment.

As just one example, the White House meeting with Zelensky and his European fans produced some of the most remarkable political optics perhaps in history. As Simplicius notes,

“Has there ever been anything like this? The entire pantheon of the European ruling class reduced to snivelling children in their school principal’s office. No one can deny that Trump has succeeded in veritably ‘breaking Europe over his knee’. There is no coming back from this turning point moment, the optics simply cannot be redeemed. The EU’s claim to being a geopolitical power is exposed as sham”.

Less noticed perhaps – but psychologically crucial – is that Trump seems to recognise in Putin a ‘mythic peer’. Despite the two being poles apart in character, nonetheless, Trump seemed to recognise a fellow from the pantheon of putative ‘mythic beings’. Watch again the scenes from Anchorage: Trump treats Putin with huge deference and respect. How unlike Trump’s disdainful treatment of the Euros.

Yet what is plain is that Trump’s respectful conduct towards Putin has exploded the West’s radical demonisation of Russia and the cordon sanitaire erected versus all things Russian. There is no coming back from this other turning point moment – “the optics simply cannot be redeemed”. Russia was treated as a peer global power.

What was it all about? A pivot: Kellogg’s frozen conflict paradigm is out; the Putin long-term peace plan is in; and tariffs are nowhere mentioned.

What is clear is that Trump has decided – after some reluctance – that he has to do “do Ukraine”.

The cold reality is that Trump faces huge pressures: The Epstein Affair stubbornly refuses to fade away. It is set to rear up again after Labor Day in the U.S.

The western Security State narrative of “we are winning”, or at least, “they are losing”, has been so powerful – and so universally accepted for so long – that it, of itself, creates a huge dynamic, pressing for Trump to persist with the Ukraine war. Facts regularly are twisted to fit this narrative. This dynamic has not yet been broken.

And Trump is trapped too, into supporting the Israeli slaughter – with the images of massacred and starved women and children turning the stomach of the younger, under 35, electoral demographic in the U.S.

These dynamics – and the economic blowback from the ‘Shock and Awe’ tariff attack to fracture BRICS – together threaten Trump’s MAGA base more directly. It is becoming existential. Epstein; the Gaza massacre; the threat of ‘more war’, and job worries is roiling not just the MAGA faction, but American young voters more generally. They ask, is Trump still one of ‘us’, or was he always with ‘them’.

Without the base behind him, Trump likely will lose the Midterm Congressional elections. Ultra rich donors pay, but cannot substitute.

What emerged from Anchorage therefore is a meagre intellectual framework. Trump minimally decided to no longer stand in the way of a Russian-imposed solution for Ukraine, which is, in any case, really the only solution there can be.

This framework is not a road map to any ultimate solution. It is delusional therefore, as Aurelien outlines, to expect that Trump and Putin were going to ‘negotiate’ an end to the war in Ukraine, “as though Mr Putin were to pull out a text from his pocket and the two of the them were then to work through it”. Trump anyway is not strong on details, and is wont to meander discursively and inconclusively.

“As we get closer to the endgame, the important action is elsewhere, and much of it will be hidden from public view. The broad outlines of the end of the military part of the Ukraine crisis have been visible for a while, even if the details could still change. By contrast, the extremely complex political endgame has only just started, the players are not really sure of the rules, nobody is really sure how many players there are anyway, and the outcome is at the moment as clear as mud”, Aurelien opines.

Then why did Trump suddenly ‘pivot’? Well it was not because he has had some ‘Damascene conversion’. Trump remains a committed Israeli Firster; and secondly, he can’t resile from his pursuit of dollar hegemony because that aim, too, is becoming problematic – as the American ‘bubble economy’ begins to unravel, and the under-30s fidget, living in their parents’ basement.

It is to Trump’s advantage (for now) to let Russia to ‘bring’ the EU and Zelensky to some negotiated ‘peace’ – through force. The U.S. ‘China hawks’ are increasingly agitating that China is close to an exponential lift-off – both economically and in tech – after which, the U.S. will lose its ability to contain China from global pre-eminence. (It is however probably already too late to stop this).

Putin too, is taking a big risk in offering Trump an off-ramp, through accepting to work towards a stable long-term relationship with the U.S. It is not Finland of 1944, where the Soviet army did force an Armistice.

In Europe, the élite believe that Trump’s peace outreach to Putin will fail. Their plan is to ensure it fails by playing along, whilst ensuring through their conditionalities, that no such agreement materialises. Thus proving to Trump that ‘Putin is not serious about ending the war’. Thus impelling American escalation.

Trump’s part of the bargain with Putin clearly is that he will shoulder managing the European ruling strata (mainly by flooding the info-sphere with contradictory noise), and through containing the American hawks (by pretending he is wooing Russia away from China). Really? Yes, really.

Putin too, faces internal pressures: From Russians convinced that ultimately he will be forced to enter into some form of interim Minsk 3-type outcome (a series of limited ceasefires that would only exacerbate the conflict) rather than achieve ‘victory’. Some Russians fear that the blood that has been spent so far may prove to be but a down-payment on more blood to be expended in a few years ahead, as the West rearms Ukraine.

And Putin faces too, the hurdle of Trump viewing his relationship with him through narrow New York real estate ‘lense’. He still does not seem to understand that the key question is not so much Ukrainian territories as it is about geo-strategic security. His enthusiasm for a trilateral summit seems to rest on the image of two real estate tycoons playing the board at Monopoly and swapping properties. But it is not like that.

It seems however, that Putin has indeed succeeded in finding an exit out from the imposed western cordon sanitaire. Russia is acknowledged as a great power again, and Ukraine will be settled on the battlefield. The two great nuclear weapons powers are talking to each other. That is important, in itself. Will Trump be able to secure his base? Will ‘game over’ in Ukraine (if it happens) be enough for MAGA? Will Netanyahu’s next genocidal rampage in Gaza explode the Trump ‘cope’ vis-à-vis MAGA? Very possibly, yes.

The views of individual contributors do not necessarily represent those of the Strategic Culture Foundation.

Trump’s Greenland security deal is a Danish sop for keeping NATO united against Russia

West faces chaos as it comes to terms with voting in imbeciles as leaders

The new world order which punishes Americans is helped get off the ground by Trump

A triangle with only two sides: Trump’s move with Zelensky in favor of Putin

Por que a agência de inteligência de Lula fez uma acusação formal contra a Rússia em carta dirigida à União Europeia?

Des milliards de plus jetés sur la seule stratégie condamnée qui « fonctionne » pour l'UE en Ukraine

Pourquoi les ministres ont-ils perdu le contrôle du défaillant ministère britannique des Affaires étrangères ?

As premissas equivocadas por trás do alarde em torno da «guerra contra a Rússia» dos europeus

Xi Jinping negli Stati Uniti: un nuovo punto di partenza per le relazioni sino-statunitensi

NVIDIA RTX PRO 5500: la nuova frontiera della guerra tecnologica tra Stati Uniti e Cina

Verhandlungen durchs Fadenkreuz. 80 Jahre später sieht Deutschland in Russland wieder lieber einen Feind als einen Partner

Le Curili e l’ordine del dopoguerra: le radici storiche e giuridiche della sovranità russa

La Russia, sentendo il clamore europeo a favore della guerra, annuncia di essere pronta

Un triangolo con soli due lati: la mossa di Trump con Zelensky a favore di Putin

La reunión de Alaska es un hito en el declive de la OTAN y la Unión Europea

######## 2025-01-28 Is Trump positioning for a no-deal with Russia

The idea of inflicting “strategic defeats” on Russia has been a cornerstone of U.S. policy for so long a time that it transcends party lines

Trump’s rhetoric about Russia having lost 1 million men in the Ukraine conflict is not just nonsense (the real number not even reaching 100,000), but his resort to it underlines that the usual meme of Trump being just woefully misinformed is looking less and less plausible.

After touting the 1 million Russian deaths, Trump then suggests that Putin is destroying Russia by not making a deal. Adding (seemingly as an aside), that Putin may have already made up his mind ‘not to make a deal’.

Instead, in a curiously disinterested way, Trump remarks that negotiations would depend entirely on whether Putin is interested or not. He further claims that Russia’s economy is in ruins, and most notably says that he would consider sanctioning or tariffing Russia, if Putin does not make a deal. In a subsequent Truth Social post, Trump writes, “I’m going to do Russia, whose Economy is failing, and President Putin, a very big FAVOR”.

This – plainly said – is a narrative of an entirely different order: No longer is it his Envoy Kellogg or another team member saying it; it is Trump’s own words as President. Trump answers a journalist’s question ‘Would [he] sanction Russia’ should Putin not come to the negotiating table? To which he responds, “that sounds likely”.

What, we might ask, is Trump’s strategy? It seems more as though it is Trump that is preparing for a ‘no deal’. He must be aware that Putin repeatedly has made plain that he is both interested and open to talks with Trump. There is no doubt about that.

Yet Trump subsequently contradicts the ‘loser discourse’ in yet another apparent after-thought: “I mean … it’s a big machine so, eventually things will happen …”.

Here he appears to be saying that the Russian ‘big machine’ ultimately will win. Russia will be a winner – and not a loser.

Maybe Trump is thinking simply to let the dynamics of the military ‘trial of strength’ play out. (If that is his thinking, he cannot utter such sentiment out loud – explicitly – as the Euro-élites would sink even further into a pathological tailspin).

Alternatively, were Trump to be seriously seeking productive negotiations with Putin, it is certainly not a good way to start by being deeply disrespectful towards the Russian people – depicting them and President Putin as ‘losers’ who desperately need a deal; whereas the reality was that it was Trump who earlier had touted getting a deal within 24 hours. His disrespect will rankle – not just with Putin – but for most Russians.

The backdrop is that Russia in any case collectively eschews the idea of any compromise that “boils down to freezing the conflict along the line of engagement: that will give time to rearm the remnants of the Ukrainian army, and then start a new round of hostilities. So, that we have to fight again, but this time from less advantageous political positions”, as Professor Sergei Karaganov has noted.

Moreover, “the Trump administration has no reason to negotiate with us on the terms we [Russia] have set. The war is economically beneficial to the U.S. … and [possibly] also to removing Russia as the powerful strategic support of America’s main competitor ? China”.

“Trump’s bid to secure a ceasefire along Ukraine’s battle lines will fail. The American plan ignores Russia’s security concerns and disregards the root causes of the conflict. Meanwhile, Moscow’s conditions will remain unacceptable to Washington, as they would effectively mean Kiev’s capitulation and the West’s strategic defeat. In response Trump will impose additional sanctions on Moscow. Despite strong anti-Russian rhetoric, U.S. aid to Ukraine will decrease, shifting much of the burden onto Western European nations”.

So why cast Russia as contemptible ‘losers’, unless this forms Trump’s strategy for walking away from the Ukraine issue? If a clear-cut U.S. ‘victory narrative’ seems beyond reach, then why not invert the narrative?‘Mission accomplished’ being obstructed solely by Russia’s ‘loser streak’.

This inevitably leads to the question of what is the meaning – exactly – of the return of America’s “most famous criminal defendant to the White House”, and his promise of a “revolution of common sense”?

“Trump galvanized [income mal-distribution] resentment, creating a political Sherman’s march that left institutional America smouldering. The corporate press is dead. The Democratic Party is in schism. Academia is about to swallow a giant bottle of bitter pills, and after the executive orders signed Monday: a lot of DEI instructors will have to learn to code” [i.e., will be unemployed].

“it makes me nervous to see a murderer’s row of censorious CEOs (particularly Bezos, Pinchai, and the repulsive Cook) sitting in front of Trump, together with other Wall Street luminaries … nonetheless, if the deal was support for Trump in exchange for platforms going back to being merely self-interested profit-gobblers, I’ll take it over the previous cabal. The Wall Street Journal was probably closest to capturing the essence of that idea of the event with yesterday’s header, “The New Oligarchy is a Vast Improvement on the Old””.

Yet to many Russians, however, the impression left by Trump’s ‘loser’ discourse is that ‘nothing changes’ – the idea of inflicting ‘strategic defeats’ on Russia has been a cornerstone of U.S. policy for so long a time that it transcends party lines and is implemented regardless of which administration occupies the White House. And today, a new impetus is apparent – as Nikolai Patrushev warns, Moscow expects Washington artificially to foment friction between Russia and China.

Steve Bannon however, in his usual florid language, goes some way to explain the conundrum of a revolutionary Trump and his disappointing ‘loser discourse’.

Bannon warns that Ukraine risks becoming ‘Trump’s Vietnam’, should Trump fail to make a ‘clean break’, and allow himself to be sucked deeper into the Ukraine war. “That’s what happened to Richard Nixon. He ended up owning the war and it went down as his war – not Lyndon Johnson’s”, Bannon noted.

Bannon “advocates ending America’s all-important military aid to Kyiv, but fears his old boss is going to fall into a trap being set by an unlikely alliance of the U.S. defence industry, the Europeans and even some of Bannon’s own friends, whom he argues are now misguided”.

Bannon’s underpinning premise was made clear during his Zoom call with Alex Krainer. He confirmed that Trump and his team will go on the offensive from day one in office: “The days of thunder begin on Monday”. Bannon wasn’t talking about Trump going on the offensive against the Chinese, Iranians or the Russians, however. Trump and his team are preparing to take on the “they””.

“They”, in Bannon’s words, “are the people who control the world’s most powerful empire and, elections or no elections, democracy or no democracy, they will not voluntarily relinquish their privileges and the control: there will be a fight”.

Yes, the ‘real war’ is the domestic one — not that against Russia, China or Iran, which could become diversions from the main battle.

For comparative purposes, were Trump’s aim truly to agree a negotiated Ukraine ‘compromise’, we need to contrast his rhetorical blatant ‘loser’ jibe with that of John F. Kennedy’s attempt, 59 years ago, to break the cycle of mutual antipathy that had frozen relations between East and West since 1945. Stung by the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962, Kennedy wanted to break an ossified paradigm. Kennedy – like Trump – sought to ‘End Wars’; to be recorded in history as a ‘peace-maker’.

In a speech at the American University in Washington on 10 June, 1963, JFK praised the Russians. He spoke of their achievements in science, the arts and industry; he saluted their sacrifices in the Second World War where they lost 25 million people, one-third of their territory and two-thirds of their economy.

It was no exercise in empty rhetoric. Kennedy proposed the Limited Nuclear Test Ban Treaty – the first of the arms-control agreements of the 1960s and 1970s.

Well, there may be inklings of a Bannon-inspired tentative ‘clean break’ beginning – as Larry Johnson notes:

“The Pentagon reportedly has fired or suspended all personnel directly responsible for managing military assistance to Ukraine. They will all face an investigation into the use of U.S. budget money.

“Laura Cooper, the Pentagon’s Deputy Assistant Secretary for Russia, Ukraine, and Eurasia, has already resigned, marking the beginning of what some see as a strategic pivot. Cooper was a key figure in overseeing $126 billion in military aid to Ukraine. Her departure, coupled with what appears to be a housecleaning of Pentagon staff tied to Kiev’s war effort, casts doubt on whether Ukraine will continue to enjoy the open spigot of U.S. weapons and funding it received under Biden.

“The restructuring also casts a shadow over the Ukraine Defence Contact Group, which under Lloyd Austin had expanded into a 50-nation coalition supporting Kiev”.

The U.S. has reportedly withdrawn all applications to contractors for logistics through Rzeszow, Constanta and Varna. At NATO bases in Europe, all shipments to Ukraine have been suspended and closed. This falls under Trump’s Executive Order halting global U.S. assistance for 90 days – pending an audit and cost-benefit analysis.

Meanwhile, Moscow and China are duly preparing against the prospect of diplomatic re-engagement with the now President Trump. Xi and Putin held a 95 minute video call a few hours after Trump’s impromptu news conference in the Oval Office – Xi gave Putin the details of his conversation with Trump (which was not timed to coincide with Trump’s inauguration, but rather had been scheduled in December).

Both leaders appear to be sending a common message to Trump — i.e., the alliance between China and Russia is not ephemeral. They are united in common cause to work jointly to assert their respective national interests. They are willing to talk to Trump and engage in serious negotiations. Yet, they refuse to be bullied or threatened.

Nikolai Patrushev, Adviser to Putin and member of Russia’s Security Council, gave the Russian context to this video call between the two leaders:

“For the Biden administration, Ukraine was an unconditional priority. It is clear, [Patrushev says], that the relationship between Trump and Biden is antagonistic. Therefore, Ukraine will not be among Trump’s priorities. He cares more about China”.

“I think Washington’s disagreements with Beijing will worsen, and the Americans will inflate them, including artificially. For us, China has been and remains the most important partner with whom we are connected by relations of privileged strategic cooperation”.

“As for the Russian line in relation to Ukraine, it remains unchanged. It is important for us that the tasks of the Special Operation are solved. They are known and have not changed. I believe that negotiations on Ukraine should be conducted between Russia and the United States without the participation of other Western countries”.

“I want to emphasize once again that the Ukrainian people remain close to us: brotherly and bound by centuries-old ties with Russia, no matter how much Kiev propagandists obsess with ‘Ukrainianness’ claim to the contrary. We care about what is happening in Ukraine. It is especially disturbing [therefore] that violent coercion to neo-Nazi ideology and ardent Russophobia destroy the once prosperous cities of Ukraine, including Kharkiv, Odessa, Nikolaev, Dnipropetrovsk”.

“It is possible that in the coming year Ukraine will cease to exist altogether”.

The views of individual contributors do not necessarily represent those of the Strategic Culture Foundation.

Trump’s Greenland security deal is a Danish sop for keeping NATO united against Russia

West faces chaos as it comes to terms with voting in imbeciles as leaders

The new world order which punishes Americans is helped get off the ground by Trump

Por que a agência de inteligência de Lula fez uma acusação formal contra a Rússia em carta dirigida à União Europeia?

Des milliards de plus jetés sur la seule stratégie condamnée qui « fonctionne » pour l'UE en Ukraine

As premissas equivocadas por trás do alarde em torno da «guerra contra a Rússia» dos europeus

NVIDIA RTX PRO 5500: la nuova frontiera della guerra tecnologica tra Stati Uniti e Cina

Verhandlungen durchs Fadenkreuz. 80 Jahre später sieht Deutschland in Russland wieder lieber einen Feind als einen Partner

Pourquoi les ministres ont-ils perdu le contrôle du défaillant ministère britannique des Affaires étrangères ?

Xi Jinping negli Stati Uniti: un nuovo punto di partenza per le relazioni sino-statunitensi

Le Curili e l’ordine del dopoguerra: le radici storiche e giuridiche della sovranità russa

La Russia, sentendo il clamore europeo a favore della guerra, annuncia di essere pronta

######## 2026-08-24 Trump mulls raising the stakes

How feasible is Trump’s strategy? Is Iran in as desperate straits as Treasury Secretary Bessent suggests?

The 60-day MoU has expired. The framework of Iranian pre-conditions for any start to negotiations nonetheless lingers on in its comatose state.

Instead of the endlessly touted ‘Iran deal’, the picture is almost the complete opposite of what President Trump sought to create when he adopted the MoU framework (even if it is not clear whether he really intended to pursue the framework through to some sort of real agreement, or whether the framework was simply a device that Trump sought to leverage out as a platform for full American hegemonic pressure on Iran in order to compel Iran to open Hormuz on American terms.)

But talks are not happening. There are zero negotiations. The Strait of Hormuz remains – as at the outset – at the centre of the conflict, and effectively shut. Meanwhile the possibility of escalation has become much closer – one might say almost inevitable – as Iran have indicated its intent to pro-actively escalate against American and Gulf infrastructure targets unless Trump abides over the next 3-4 weeks by the well-known Iranian preconditions.

One early Iranian precondition is no longer implicit, but explicit: The Iranians have specified that the Palestinian arena that must be covered by the ‘the ceasefire for all, or ceasefire for no-one’ precondition. Of course, Israel won’t do this. They are escalating violently – a veritable “land grab” – against Palestinian refugee camps and villages in the West Bank.

Plainly, Iran’s preconditions are unlikely to be accepted by Trump. For, combined, they represent an unmistakable Iranian demand for the wholesale dismantlement of the U.S. military infrastructure of the siege surrounding Iran – effectively U.S. capitulation in West Asia.

Worse, from Trump’s perspective, his war on Iran, far from making the Middle East a sea of tranquillity and peace ‘after a thousand years of conflict’, as he claimed, his war on Iran has precisely ignited the regions’ many underlying tensions, setting them on fire. The region today is a tinderbox, rather than an exemplar of peaceful co-existence. Even his erstwhile allies have turned against him.

The most serious bush-fire is that in the Palestinian arena. Primary elections have been held by Likud. And General Elections are set to take place in Israel on 27 October. But already, it’s clear that elements of the political Right in Israel are planning to set the West Bank alight in order to ensure their polling victory – or at least to eliminate the possibility that any other government can be formed. A provocation centred on Al-Aqsa Mosque has been hinted at by Israeli politicians.

The Palestinian arena, of course, remains the combustible detonator which can set the region afire. As Ben Caspit outlines:

“The fanatics’ plan … is to create chaos, to bring about a biblical Gog and Magog war, at the end of which it will be possible to fulfil Smotrich’s “decision plan” and expel the Palestinians … or push them out by definition … The end of this plan will be the end of those who dream of a Riviera in Gaza and of crowds of Gazans leaving in buses for “voluntary immigration” … This will not happen. What will happen is bloodshed in commercial quantities and a greater, more real and threatening danger than anything we have encountered so far …”.

An angry and frustrated Trump called a team meeting last Saturday at Camp David to consider next steps in the wake of the expiry of the 60-day MoU de-escalation period.

Credible reporting from Marjory Taylor Green states categorically that Trump again expressed great frustration that he had not achieved his objective in Iran – to force it to surrender, to capitulate.

Trump is bemused and angry that Iran is proving so difficult to bring to capitulation, and so is toying with other ways of achieving their surrender. And so, we read Marjorie Taylor Greene leaking that Trump again discussed the possibility of using tactical non-strategic nuclear weapons against Iran.

This is not the first occasion that Trump has raised such a possibility. Reportedly, he has raised the question on two earlier occasions, the first in April, during the conflict with Iran. Trump’s preoccupation with this question however has older roots. Reportedly, it lay at the crux to his dispute with Rex Tillerson and James Mattis.

Tillerman, at the time, was Secretary of State, and Mattis was Defence Secretary. During the Trump 1.0 mandate, he kept contending that the U.S. should be able to use tactical nuclear weapons more freely. ‘Why not?’, he would ask. Why should we [the U.S.] be held back, or debarred from using them, Trump questioned. And the answer always came back from Tillerson and Mattis too, that nuclear weapons were only for strategic deterrence. They were not to be deployed willy-nilly, as an alternative to other forms of munitions.

Trump was not happy with this answer, reportedly. Well, now we’re back to the same argument, because not only did Trump raise it again at last week’s meeting (this is probably the third time that he suggested it in the context of the Iranian conflict) – but the issue is returning in a new context.

Elbridge Colby, Under-Secretary at the Pentagon, responsible for defence policy, and who played a significant part in the drafting of the National Security Statement, apparently advocates for tactical weapons to be re-categorised as ‘tactical weapons’, and not simply confined to their place as strategic deterrence. Colby argues that U.S. failure in the conventional military arena (i.e. in Iran), could justify the use of tactical nuclear weapons – to compensate for the loss of U.S. conventional deterrence.

And it is into this context that Netanyahu has been lying about the imminence of a nuclear threat from Iran for which there is no evidence; nor is there solid evidence that Iran is preparing a weapon, Israeli Military Intelligence avers. Netanyahu produced no evidence to support this case during discussions of the 28 February attack on Iran, Israeli journalist investigators collectively believe.

AMAN, Israel’s military intelligence arm, supplied to the Israeli cabinet a completely contradictory opinion. There had been a number of investigations by very senior journalists on which they all agree that the military intelligence indicated there was no evidence that Iran was moving towards a weapon, no intelligence that they were intending so to do, and no intelligence to suggest that something was happening on the ground that might be taken to assume there was a move towards starting a weapons programme.

In short, there is no evidence that would support a preventive tactical nuclear attack by the U.S. ‘to prevent Iran having a bomb’. It would be false to suggest otherwise – shades of the Iraq war.

This comprises the background to the talk about the possibility of the U.S. dropping a nuclear device on Iran. It remains a possibility, but there are several voices in the Trump circle that are adamantly opposed, believing its use would constitute a grave war crime.

So, for now, the Trump strategy has turned to compelling Iran’s defeat by economic means. U.S. Treasury Secretary Bessent insists that Iran’s economic circumstances are catastrophic and that (paraphrased) he’s going to put ‘the mother and father’ of all sanctions on Iran.

How feasible is this strategy? Is Iran in as desperate straits as Bessent suggests, or is it not? If you were to take the Tehran Stock Exchange as a good ‘bell-weather’ for the Iranian economy, then since May, it has risen by 58.7%. There is high inflation in Iran, that is true. But the rate of increase of inflation has declined from 7.2% in June to 3.2% today. The loss of value in the Iran Rial, though continuing, is happening at a much slower rate.

Iran had 140 million barrels of oil exports at sea at the outset of the conflict, which brought them resources of about $1 billion. In February between 23rd, February to the 13th April Beesent temporarily lifted oil sanctions. During that period of 66 days, Iran sold some 80 million barrels of oil, as well.

So yes, Iran’s oil export volumes are down, but the price at which they are being sold is higher.

This is not to say that the economic situation in Iran is rosy, but more significantly, in response to Bessent’s assertions of desperation, there is no evidence to date, nor of public unrest because of the economic situation.

The U.S. can attempt to block the sea corridors, but the land corridors from Iran through Pakistan and the Caspian to Russia still function.

So perhaps the Iranian economy may be more resilient than Bessent assumes. Then what likely is Bessent’s plan? He doesn’t say. But the most obvious targets would be to put sanctions on the Chinese ‘teapot refiners’ that have traditionally heavily bought Iranian oil. And possibly to sanction Chinese banks that finance such trade. That seems to be a possible first resort. The second resort might be to expropriate Iran’s crypto and digital assets, wherever possible. And to ask allies to seize any and all Iranian assets in their jurisdiction.

Taken together, this may sound very impressive and threatening for Iran. But circumstances today are very different from 2015 when the JCPOA was first implemented. At that time, the JCPOA was embedded into a UN Security Council resolution, and therefore its provisions were binding on Russia and China.

Largely, Russia and China did observe the JCPOA sanctions, until the latter’s demise following Trump’s pull-out from the agreement in 2018. Now. however, circumstances are very changed. Russia and China are no longer so supportive of sanctions on Iran. On the contrary, they have become transformed into co-belligerents with Iran in this war (co-belligerents in the sense of providing intelligence, providing the technical means by which real-time intelligence can be provided to missile sites and to base stations in Iran, and other support, perhaps in facilitating payment systems that bypass the dollar).

Bessent may have it in mind to target the purchasers of Iranian oil in China, and Chinese banks, too. But this would bring the U.S. into direct conflict with both countries. The last time the U.S. applied sanctions on the ‘teapots’, China activated an Act making it illegal for Chinese entities, domestic and foreign, to comply with American sanctions.

Would they do the same again? Well, in all likelihood, yes. It is a different world from that of 2015 – the U.S. dollar may be still be the most used medium of exchange for settling trade transactions, but it is no longer the world’s main reserve asset. That is now gold.

And today, the reasons why historically the dollar became dominant are slipping away (just as they did for Sterling, where the transformation from its earlier standing occurred unexpectedly fast).

The utility of holding U.S. Treasuries as rainy-day assets plainly vanishes if Bessent prohibits their sale in his desperation to preserve the dollar’s FX value, leaving holders stranded (which is currently the case). Of course, debt-repayment needs will continue to serve as a demand for dollars, but essentially the basis to the dollar’s huge global position lay in the issuance of cheap dollar credit.

That advantage is over. Ten-year Chinese bonds are now 3% cheaper. No surprise then that European Banks now are lending to customers in Chinese Panda Bonds in an ever-deepening renminbi debt market.

And if all Iran’s assets, including crypto, are to be arbitrarily seized by the U.S., whose assets will be safe? Trust in the U.S. currency is already withering as the dollar exchange value falls and volatility seizes hold.

Bessent’s ‘Iran initiative’ may turn out to be self-defeating, both by further weakening the dollar and by effectively persuading states to turn to China’s low-key roll out of its alternative financial super highway for security and stability.

Today, Iran’s allies – although not in full military alliance, but in strategic partnerships of different degrees – undoubtedly have helped Iran and will likely continue to help Iran bypass the U.S. dollar plumbing by opening the door into the evolving ‘global plumbing’ system. They have no interest in seeing Iran defeated.

The views of individual contributors do not necessarily represent those of the Strategic Culture Foundation.

West faces chaos as it comes to terms with voting in imbeciles as leaders

Trump’s Greenland security deal is a Danish sop for keeping NATO united against Russia

Por que a agência de inteligência de Lula fez uma acusação formal contra a Rússia em carta dirigida à União Europeia?

Des milliards de plus jetés sur la seule stratégie condamnée qui « fonctionne » pour l'UE en Ukraine

NVIDIA RTX PRO 5500: la nuova frontiera della guerra tecnologica tra Stati Uniti e Cina

Verhandlungen durchs Fadenkreuz. 80 Jahre später sieht Deutschland in Russland wieder lieber einen Feind als einen Partner

Pourquoi les ministres ont-ils perdu le contrôle du défaillant ministère britannique des Affaires étrangères ?

As premissas equivocadas por trás do alarde em torno da «guerra contra a Rússia» dos europeus

Xi Jinping negli Stati Uniti: un nuovo punto di partenza per le relazioni sino-statunitensi

Le « piège de la crédibilité ». Un piège potentiellement destructeur pour l’Arabie saoudite

Lo spazio appartiene all’umanità: la sfida della governance oltre la nuova corsa alla conquista

L’arte di non vincere: Iran, Ucraina e la geometria della prima metà del 2026

Trump valuta la possibilità di alzare la posta in gioco per costringere l'Iran alla capitolazione