The real reasons for the US-Israeli war on Iran, explained

In its war on Iran, the US empire seeks to impose hegemony in West Asia (aka the Middle East), destroy the Axis of Resistance, colonize Palestine, destabilize the revolutionary Iranian government, preserve the petrodollar system, prevent de-dollarization, divide BRICS, and break up the Iran-Russia-China partnership.

The United States and Israel are jointly waging war on Iran, but why? What are their real goals?

What the US empire would like to accomplish is the following:

-   Maintain US hegemony in West Asia (aka the Middle East)

-   Destroy the anti-colonial Axis of Resistance, making possible the total colonization of Palestine

-   Overthrow or at least weaken Iran’s independent, revolutionary government

-   Scare other countries in the region that may seek to move away from the US and the dollar (especially the Gulf monarchies)

-   Preserve the petrodollar system, ensuring global demand for the US dollar

-   Destabilize BRICS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, divide the Global South, and disrupt the multipolar project

-   Break up the Iran-Russia-China partnership, with the ultimate goal of isolating Beijing

That said, it is of course by no means guaranteed that these goals will be achieved.

In the following video, Geopolitical Economy Report editor Ben Norton explains:

Anybody who believes the “prevent WMDs in Iran” narrative to justify the current Israel vs Iran war, is just as stupid as anyone who still believes the “remove WMDs in Iraq” narrative to justify Gulf War 2.

Many motivations may exist, but what is THE major underlying reason for today’s ever widening conflicts?

Are current confrontations around the world caused by disagreements between Nation States? If not, what is the real driver of these conflicts and who is driving them?

Hint: it ain’t Trumpty Dumpty who is a just a moronic sock puppet of……. ?? who???

Is Israel behind it all? Does Israel control the USA or does the USA control Israel while only pretending to be controlled by the Zionist lobby in some sort of elaborate double bluff?

I have previously asserted that it is CAPITALIST BIG MONEY that controls the national policies of BOTH Israel and the USA, indeed the policies of all of Western Europe and other similar insane regimes eg Argentina etc.

Control is extended over Japan, South Korea and Taiwan ostensibly through US military occupation and psyops propaganda, but the underlying puppet master behind all that is CAPITALIST BIG MONEY which controls the US empire and its satrapies.

This assertion is not new and is arrived at using the principles of FOLLOW THE MONEY and CUI BONO?

Who profits from all the crazy decisions being made that are destroying the living standards of ordinary people in the West?

Who has been appointing, then bankrolling the political decision makers?

It is not just Rothschild type Jewish bankers, it is also AngloSaxon bankers, it is also European bankers (especially the Germs) who have created and promoted (TINA!) the neoliberal economic system, better described as Krony Kapitalist Kleptocracy.

It used to be said that “all wars are bankers wars” .

However today it is now not just the old money of traditional bankers influencing events, it is the new money of Hedge Fund Managers and Investment Managers, the asset stripping VULTURE CAPITALIST firms, it is also the new money of Techbros such as Peter Thiel, deeply embedded with the CIA via Palantir, and Elon Musk, providing Starlink support for the Ukronazis and receiving uncountable (and unaccountable) contracts from the Pentagon.

I agree with Larry Johnson and Pepe Escobar that the proxy UkroNazi vs Russia war and the proxy ZioNazi vs Iran war (ultimately targeting Russia and China) are basically wars of the collective West vs the BRICS, in which the “I” has been replaced by Iran, because India is proving irrelevant.

On the one hand, the 400 year old European Empires founded on genocide and slavery that have morphed into the Collective West Krony Kapitalist Kleptocracies that benefit the super rich elite

On the other hand the Global Majority seeking a peace and prosperity based on Socialist or Resource Nationalism approaches, to benefit ordinary working people.

To simplify things further: we are seeing CLASS WAR being played out globally.

Sweep away all the chaff, the fluff, the confetti and that is what you see: Global Class War.

Just being a big country does not make you an empire. An empire is an entity that exploits overseas territories and people for it’s own gain. France may not be that big but it remains an empire.

Once we have identified the root cause of the major conflicts that put us at risk if WW3 and nuclear Armageddon, the solution is obvious.

Get rid of the uber rich puppet masters, Mangione them if necessary, and force the oligarchs to serve the people.

The USA was successful, after initial apparent failure, to bring about regime change in Syria in 2024 using their terrorist ISIS / Salafist proxies.

Hence in 2025 the USA thinks they can do the same to Iran using their terrorist Zionazi proxy. They cannot.

First and foremost, Syria was a fake country, it was cobbled together from disparate sects by Sykes-Picot, and the minority Alawites were appointed rulers by the neocolonial French to divide and rule. It was a powderkeg designed to eventually blow up.

Iran is culturally unified (irrespective of internal secular and religious differences) with an unshakeable common identity of ancient Persian heritage.

Here are the mistakes leading to the Syrian collapse, lessons that the Iranians have learned: https://www.greanvillepost.com/2024/12/14/us-israel-destroyed-syria-called-it-peace/#comment-64495

Iran is far larger, far richer (despite decades of US sanctions) and far more unified than Syria ever was. It has built up formidable modern missile defences and drone and missile offences. It is backed up by BOTH Russia AND China.

Pakistan has already sent several Chinese made J10C fighter jets (superior to top-of-the-line French Rafales) to Iran to bolster Iran’s creaky old airforce.

Pakistan apparently also declared that if Israel launches any nukes into Iran, Pakistan will directly nuke Israel.

Alternatively, it will not be difficult for Pakistan to deliver a few dozen nuclear warheads to Iran to be mounted on Iranian hypersonic missiles to target Israel.

Already there is frenzied trucking of materiel from Pakistan to Iran.

There are only two outcomes possible in this Collective West vs Global Majority conflict:

or Nuclear war which will escalate globally and cause the death of billions, with a high chance of human extinction.

In my addendum I posted the wrong Laith Marouf interview.

Listen to his words from around 37.5 minutes in particular

If the above flow chart of the Blob does not work, try this

That’s a fact; THIS IS A REPEAT OF #WMD WAR WAGED AGAINST IRAQ.

Prof Ted Postol from MIT, missile and nuclear weapons expert and former adviser to the Pentagon (who ignored his advice) has strong views:

– As a Jew he is full of revulsion for the current insane and genocidal Israeli regime that is driving us towards nuclear war

– As a US citizen he despises the Israel lobby AIPAC because he considers Israel a foreign country that should have no say in US policy

– As an expert on all types of missiles and missile defences he explains, citing a current scientific paper, that there is essentially no chance that even the biggest US “bunker buster” bomb, the MOAB, can damage the Iranian underground nuclear facilities.

The USA may be a high GROSS producer of poor EROEI unconventional oil (LTO, NOT petroleum) and poor EROEI unconventional gas ,

but is a low NET producer of oil and gas.

The USA needs imported petroleum (primarily the diesel fraction) to extract domestic unconventional oil and gas, and it gets the former free due to its petrodollar privilege.

No petrodollar privilege, no domestic US production of oil and gas.

Note that the workhorse fractions of petroleum, which are diesel and jet fuel (=low sulphur kerosene), CANNOT be made from US LTO unless blended with heavier, higher density petroleum or Athabascan tar sand fractions and the latter is also unconventional super expensive poor EROEI scammery.

I am so frustrated that I am unable to get people to understand these indisputable FACTS based on hard Physics, Chemistry and Geophysical REALITIES, truths about oil and gas which have TREMENDOUS geopolitical/economic implications.

Truths that the fossil fuel scammers are dead set on keeping the public ignorant about.

NO ENERGY = NO ECONOMY = MASS HUMAN DIEOFF

Ben, Michael and Radhika do superb jobs with their geopolitical and economic research but need to expand their understanding to wider crucial matters or they will remain partially blind, which means being blindsided by future events.

A geopolitical economist who is blind to energy matters is like a pilot-navigator who does not look at his fuel gauge.

A geopolitical economist who is blind to climate change and ecodestruction issues is like a pilot-navigator who does not look at his storm radar displaying a massive thunderstorm ahead.

Chris Hedges is a brilliant geopolitical analyst who unfortunately lacks even a proper awareness of economic matters, much less any understanding of energy or climate science or ecology.

He wrote a hopelessly despairing piece regarding the outlook for the Gazans which I debunked here

His view is limited by lack of understanding of wider economic and energy issues which I mentioned here:

As an example of suffering from severe blindspots, ignorance of the nature of oil geophysics and chemistry and economics that taint one’s judgement, I would like to comment on this interview with Dr Paul Craig Roberts who is an esteemed economist and US former government insider and widely considered a realist astute geopolitical commentator.

that the USA is more likely to close the Straits of Hormuz than Iran because the ultimate agenda of the USA is to hurt China and China will be much more adversely affected by curtailment of Persian Gulf oil exports than the USA.

The implicit assumptions behind his assertion is seriously flawed.

He thinks that the USA, being the world’s largest domestic oil “producer”, will hardly be affected, but China, which now receives up to half of its oil via Hormuz, will be much more severely hurt.

Although it is true that China’s economy would be severely hurt, it is far more likely the USA’s economy would be much more severely hurt and much sooner.

These are the flaws in PCR’s assumptions, here is what he does know know or admit:

Oil output (production of LTO) domestically in the USA is dependent on imported inputs that facilitate the US production. The primary input without which there can be no output is DIESEL. USA’s oil production is basically shale LTO (think… paint thinner) with very little diesel. It is impossible to produce diesel from LTO unless blended from heavy petroleum imported fractions or super expensive tar sand fractions, also imported. Result: oil prices in the USA will skyrocket.

The USA is utterly dependent on diesel to run everything: long distance trucking, locomotives, all agricultural machinery, all mining and construction machinery etc. Alice Friedemann’s important book “When the trucks stop running”

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1-J58QAj3js outlines how utterly dependent the USA is on diesel, essentially everything grinds to a halt without diesel, which today is all essentially imported. Result: the entire US economy collapses.

Jet fuel also cannot be made from LTO and is largely imported. No jet fuel, no transcontinental high speed travel within the USA. Result: the US aviation industy collapses.

The USA’s strategic petroleum reserve has essentially been drawn down to a tiny puddle by the US government to keep prices at the pump down.

China by contrast has maintained a huge strategic petroleum reserve to last several months. Furthermore any severe sudden curtailment of petroleum will be managed by rationing to key sectors, to ensure basic systems continue to function and people do not face skyrocketing food prices. Furthermore much of China’s transportation system is electrified and powered by nuclear energy, coal or hydro. Hence the high speed cross country trains and the city metros will keep running and a large proportion of buses, taxis and personal vehicles will be unaffected, being electric these days.

China will continue to receive petroleum from Russia and now with its direct rail connection to Tehran, oil tankers can be delivered overland from Iran to China. Furthermore the Caspian sea states (Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan etc) are major oil exporters and can also deliver oil overland to China. The USA does not have these options.

So whereas PCR is right that the USA may be motivated to close Hormuz based on the flawed thinking that he shares, the consequences of such closure will be vastly different to what he expects due to his lack of understanding of the geophysics and chemistry and economy of oil.

All the scuttlebutt now is about the ZioYankees engineering a false flag to give the USA an excuse to start bombing Iran.

The Zionists have form committing false flag atrocities (eg USS Liberty).

In this case, the USA itself may sink its own ship eg the creaky old Nimitz which is just a year away from decommissioning, then blame Iran and cry crocodile tears about butts of their own sailors being scuttled, then plunge headlong into WW3.

Trump said it blatantly: he does not care about the unanimous judgements of 17 US intelligence agencies, the summary of which you presented to him.

Colonel Gabbard, I used to think highly of your courageous anti-war stands based on your honest examination of facts and evidence.

If you truly believe the words of your recent warning to the world that elites in the US are pushing for nuclear war, then you must act to STOP THIS NOW. It may be possible that you are the only one in the world who can do this.

There are NO judicial or constitutional avenues available to stop such madness today, all peaceful checks and balances have been systematically dismantled and sabotaged over the years by the puppet masters controlling Washington.

There is NO democracy in the USA, only the despicable diversion of trillions of dollars that should be used for US public healthcare and housing and infrastructure going instead to military boondoggles and the overseas genocide of brown people with skin hue the same as yours.

You have deep and wide contacts in the US military. You know who can be trusted and who are just self serving Generals on the Raytheon payroll.

You need to organise a military coup to extirpate the Neoconartists, the Chickenshit Armchair Warmongering Psychopaths, the beltway swamp creatures, the corporatists and their financiers who are pushing us into Armageddon.

The personal risk to you for doing this is extremely high. But the risk of you not doing this, the risk of you and all your family and all of humanity dying is far far higher and is utterly unacceptable.

Note that you have NO OBLIGATION to be loyal to a President or an Establishment that perpetrates ILLEGAL warfare, in fact it is YOUR CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY TO DEFY illegal orders.

It is obvious to everyone in the world that war with Iran, which poses NO THREAT to the USA, is ILLEGAL, even more obviously than the 2003 US invasion of Iraq based on LIES.

Psychopathic lunatics may slander you as a traitor to the USA, but you cannot be a traitor for foiling the criminal agenda of mass murdering psychopaths and for saving US lives.

You will in fact be recognised as the greatest US patriot in history, by overthrowing those psychopaths, saving the world from nuclear extinction and redirecting all US finances to the rebuilding of the USA.

Truly democratic elections can be held after that, but only after extensive reforms, in particular banning the toxic funding of candidates by private and/or foreign interests, especially AIPAC.

The above message was written just before Gabbard backflipped and tried to disown the literal words she uttered to Congress in March, that the Iranians had abandoned efforts to build any nuclear weapon since 2003.

Buen recorrido histórico y actual del porqué de las guerras de desgaste con Rusia a través de Ucrania, de Irán a través de Israel para enfrentar finalmente al enemigo número uno: China. Comparto este esfueerzo en esta parte del mundo con la mira puesta en el esclarecimiento necesario para desmovilizar la inercia informativa y el conocimiento más allá de lo cotidiano y el consumismo.
