While the headline stock indexes are showing remarkable resilience, beneath the surface the waters are anything but calm…

A quick glance at the markets will reveal that equities are doing just fine.  But are they?

Beneath the surface, things are decidedly not fine, with nearly 60% of all S&P 500 stocks in bear market territory:

How can this be?  As we’ve been discussing for months, equities have been held up by a very tiny minority of super large-cap stocks.

Paul recently read that of 94% of the S&P 500 stocks went to zero, the index itself would still be around 4,400.

The two most recent times that ‘market breadth’ has been this bad was during the bear markets of 2002 and 2020:

Further, something really powerful is lurking in the Treasury market (as well as the long-duration bond yields of Japan, France, the UK and Germany).

This is both eye-popping and worth keeping a very close eye on:

And the price of oil is so heavily manipulated at this point that veteran commodities traders and portfolio managers like Jeff Currie are throwing in the towel in exasperation.

So what gives? How can such stresses exist without it being reflected in the prices of things?

Paul and I discuss the idea that something truly broke during the GFC in 2008 and has never really recovered.  The powerful changed the rules, and we’ve all had to adapt and adjust to those changes.  I mean, just look at the trajectory of the S&P 500 post-GFC:

This is where having a risk-managed strategy along with tactical portfolio adaptations becomes very important.

Because ‘they’ can change the rules, but they cannot change basic economic principles and laws.  One of those laws is, “you need cheap and abundant energy to support a growing economy.”  Another one is, “a growing economy needs abundant and growing credit (or debt).”

The various shenanigans being deployed by this administration (and the last, by the way) are just that: tricks and deceptions.

Stay nimble, be ready for anything, and have defined limits and rules for when to press returns and when to pull back to a safe harbor position.

These are especially tricky times because so many formerly trustworthy sources of data and information have been subjugated to political will and narratives.

The information contained in this video and the resources available for download through our affiliated website are not intended as and shall not be understood or construed as financial advice, nor should be interpreted as a solicitation to sell or offer to sell investment advisory services. No person who currently works for or contracts with Peak Prosperity or Peak Financial Investing is an attorney or accountant, nor are we holding ourselves out to be, and the information contained in the video and on the website is not a substitute for legal or tax advice from a professional who is aware of the facts and circumstances of your individual situation. While Peak Financial Investing is a registered investment advisor, please note that this podcast is not intended to be investment advice.

All information has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but its accuracy is not guaranteed. There is no representation or warranty as to the current accuracy, reliability or completeness of, nor liability for, decisions based on such information and it should not be relied on as such. We have done our best to ensure that the information provided is accurate and provides what we feel is valuable information. The views expressed are subject to change based on market and other conditions.<

No guests or clients appearing on the podcast receive any form of compensation for their appearance and obtained no other benefit from either Peak Prosperity or Peak Financial Investing.

All investing involves risks including the possible loss of capital. Asset allocation and diversification does not ensure a profit or protect against loss. Please note that out- performance does not necessarily represent positive total returns for a period. There is no assurance that any investment strategy will be successful. All investments carry a certain degree of risk. Dividends are not guaranteed, and a company’s future ability to pay dividends may be limited.

Additional important disclosures for Peak Financial Investing may be found in our Form ADV Part 2A, which can be found at https://adviserinfo.sec.gov/firm/summary/319672.

Transcripts are available for our Peak Insiders and Key Supporters.

You've stumbled across a trove of exclusive content and vibrant comradery.

Join now to view the information you're looking for.

We'd love to hear from you in the comments. But we hate corporate and three letter agency AI bots, so we have a simple registration process to keep our community vibrant.

You're intrigued, aren't you? Don't miss out on the opportunity to be part of an exclusive group of individuals who are taking their experience to new heights. Enroll now and elevate your journey with us!

-   Email alerts when events cause Chris Martenson to take personal action

-   Full access to all discussions and our vibrant online community

This is a premium article that has been shared with you. To access, please create a free account.

Sorry, the free link has expired. You must become a member to view this content.

Sorry, the free link has expired. You must upgrade your membership to view this content.

Copyright © 2026 Peak Prosperity, LLC. All rights reserved.
