The Fat Pipe 09/28/26: Serious Lying, Diesel Shortages, the Future of Oil, and Grab Bag

It was another truly wild weekend of explosive news. Things are definitely speeding up.

You're viewing just the public portion of this content

Become a Peak Insider today and unlock premium content, alerts when Chris takes personal action, and direct access to Chris and other members of our active community of like-minded thinkers.

Happy Monday, everyone!  I got a great night’s sleep last night.  It’s been a while…so I am ready to tackle the flood of news that came out over the past three days…

Next weekend (October 3 and 4) we’re going to be holding two events here at the farm.

First, on Saturday the 3^(rd,) starting at 11:00 a.m. will be a chicken processing workshop.  We’ve got 25 birds that are ready for the freezer, and so for anybody who wants to learn the process from start to finish and take a bird home with them, the cost is $35, with a limit of 12 people.  We’ve got this down to a science.  The weather looks good on Saturday.

The funds offset the cost of raising the birds and provide us with much-needed farm revenue that has to reach a yearly minimum in order to file tax returns.

Also, for anybody wishing to simply show up and do some work, we’re renting a firewood processing machine for the weekend, the ‘work’ of which is really driving a tractor with a dump trailer.  Kevin or I will be operating the excavator used to load the processor.

Or you can help us pick potatoes and process garlic or cut apples for loading into the freeze dryer.   These activities will be running both Saturday beginning at 11:00 and continuing through Sunday until 3:00 pm.

If you come, we’d love to see you; please bring food and drink.  We’re going to be in work mode the whole time

Become a Peak Insider today and unlock premium content, alerts when Chris takes personal action, and direct access to Chris and other members of our active community of like-minded thinkers.

Something about this is too precious. A farmer who happened to be on her way home around midnight called the police and she was the...

We'd love to hear from you in the comments. But we hate corporate and three letter agency AI bots, so we have a simple registration process to keep our community vibrant.

You're intrigued, aren't you? Don't miss out on the opportunity to be part of an exclusive group of individuals who are taking their experience to new heights. Enroll now and elevate your journey with us!

-   Email alerts when events cause Chris Martenson to take personal action

-   Full access to all discussions and our vibrant online community

This is a premium article that has been shared with you. To access, please create a free account.

Sorry, the free link has expired. You must become a member to view this content.

Sorry, the free link has expired. You must upgrade your membership to view this content.

Copyright © 2026 Peak Prosperity, LLC. All rights reserved.
