Mass Deception – How (And Why) The Fourth Estate Is Failing the Country

When facing predicaments, as we are now, only objective, clear-eyed pursuit of the truth can help us navigate to safety. But mainstream media insists on providing the opposite and that’s a problem. A huge problem.

This is the fourth podcast in the “Is It Too Late?” series.

Many people, me included, feel like the United States is headed in the wrong direction.  As in disastrously wrong.  So, the question arises: can the U.S. be saved, or is it already too late?

And by ‘saved’ I mean can we return to a country that offers a fair shake to all of its citizens, not just the 0.1%, with equal justice for all, and that provides a livable future which the young can inhabit and believe in?

In this episode we turn to the fourth estate – the media – which has been failing us for years. It is my view the media is not only bad but rapidly becoming even less capable of holding government accountable, providing unbiased factual reporting, and holding up truth to power, be that corporate or governmental power.

And I’m not alone…A 2025 Gallup poll revealed a startling slide in confidence in the media, stating, quote:

WASHINGTON, D.C. — Americans’ confidence in the mass media has edged down to a new low, with just 28% expressing a “great deal” or “fair amount” of trust in newspapers, television and radio to report the news fully, accurately and fairly. This is down from 31% last year and 40% five years ago.

Meanwhile, seven in 10 U.S. adults now say they have “not very much” confidence (36%) or “none at all” (34%).

-   Republicans’ confidence has dropped to single digits (8%) for the first time in the trend.

-   Independents’ trust has not reached the majority level since 2003, and the latest 27% reading matches last year’s historical low.

-   For Democrats, the narrowest of majorities (51%) now express trust in the media, which is a repeat of the low previously seen in 2016.

Clearly, we’re not going to be fixing anything with the media constantly leading us astray and comprehensively failing at their most sacred duty of shining bright lights on uncomfortable topics.

To explore this with us today is Dylan Ratigan. For thirty years, he sat in the rooms where money, media, and power actually operate. He built Bloomberg’s corporate-finance desk, created CNBC’s Fast Money, and hosted MSNBC’s highest-rated daytime show.

Then, at the peak of his career, Dylan Ratigan walked away—not because he’d run out of things to say, but because talking wasn’t enough. New York Times bestselling author. Relentless critic of the unholy alliance between government and greed. A man who left the studio to try building something better… and came back with the stories only someone who’s been inside can tell.

Dylan’s insider status afforded him a ringside seat to observe how and why mainstream media lost the plot.  Of course, money is at the center of it all.  And the way mainstream media makes money ensures the incentives are off track for providing factual coverage that holds truth to power.

Instead, media makes money by acquiring and monetizing human attention, creating powerful incentives for provocative, emotional, and sensational content.

Media executives are motivated by the idea of not being fired, and the way you do that is by playing the game.

Beyond these difficult-to-respect weaknesses, Ratigan considers sins of omission more consequential than sins of commission. What isn’t reported on at all is a far more serious threat to our republic than overtly false stories.

False reporting can be identified and challenged, while subjects that simply never receive serious coverage can remain outside public awareness.  Like the Epstein case, or Covid vaccine injuries, or fake weapons of mass destruction (WMD’s) in Iraq.

In the end, Dylan is working to create a better world, too.  He sees ways out of this mess, but it’s not going to be easy or quick.  Alternative media is on the rise, eating the figurative and literal lunch of the entrenched and sinking traditional mass media companies.

Transcripts are available for our Peak Insiders and Key Supporters.

You've stumbled across a trove of exclusive content and vibrant comradery.

Join now to view the information you're looking for.

I finished the Ratigan interview, and really liked the part near the end. Dylan said the only way out is a political organization outside the...

We'd love to hear from you in the comments. But we hate corporate and three letter agency AI bots, so we have a simple registration process to keep our community vibrant.

You're intrigued, aren't you? Don't miss out on the opportunity to be part of an exclusive group of individuals who are taking their experience to new heights. Enroll now and elevate your journey with us!

-   Email alerts when events cause Chris Martenson to take personal action

-   Full access to all discussions and our vibrant online community

This is a premium article that has been shared with you. To access, please create a free account.

Sorry, the free link has expired. You must become a member to view this content.

Sorry, the free link has expired. You must upgrade your membership to view this content.

Copyright © 2026 Peak Prosperity, LLC. All rights reserved.
