Is It Too Late to Save the Financial System?

You know, it didn’t have to be this way. The government could have used QE productively and delivered greater prosperity to the country. But it didn’t, and doesn’t seem to want to change, and so here we are.

Welcome to the third podcast in the “Is It Too Late?” series.

Many people, myself included, feel like the United States is headed in the wrong direction.  As in disastrously wrong.  I wonder what kind of a world we are leaving for future generations…especially when it comes to the financial situation of the U.S.

Some, like Ray Dalio, have said that we’re already past the point of no return.  All that’s left is for the U.S. to experience either a severe debt crisis or a currency crisis, and possibly both.

Today’s guest is noted economist Richard Werner, who caught my interest for this series when he appeared on the Tucker Carlson show and said that there’s possibly a path out of this mess.  It involves redirecting government deficit spending (and “QE”) toward productive enterprises.

In this podcast, Richard Werner argues that America’s approximately $40 trillion national debt is on an exponential trajectory that is fundamentally unsustainable without major changes to spending, economic growth, or debt management.

Cutting to the chase, this seems unlikely given the current crop of political players and their addiction to reckless spending and uneconomic policies and programs.

Everything of late, especially including the centralization of banking into fewer and fewer behemoths, is working against a return to widespread economic prosperity.

One sour note for me was Richard’s soft promotion of the idea of abiotic oil possibly being a major factor that hasn’t been given proper attention.  If I ever get an hour of Richard’s time on the topic, I am sure I can help clear that up; abiotic oil is just not a significant part of the story.

We also discussed digital currencies, the petrodollar, and the looming Treasury yield crisis that seems to be brewing.

I did not come away with a clear answer as to whether there’s a realistic chance of turning off the path we’re on, so for now I am going to stick with my old maxim: a body in motion will remain in motion.

In other words, the trajectory we’re on is the path.

And that path leads to financial and monetary chaos.

17:38 The Debt Trap and the Inflation Escape Route

36:33 Energy, Economic Growth, and the Limits of Resources

1:06:28 Is the United States Approaching a Breaking Point?

Transcripts are available for our Peak Insiders and Key Supporters.

You've stumbled across a trove of exclusive content and vibrant comradery.

Join now to view the information you're looking for.

Something that occurred to me. Let’s assume abiotic oil really is a thing. The next question to ask is, what’s the rate of...

We'd love to hear from you in the comments. But we hate corporate and three letter agency AI bots, so we have a simple registration process to keep our community vibrant.

You're intrigued, aren't you? Don't miss out on the opportunity to be part of an exclusive group of individuals who are taking their experience to new heights. Enroll now and elevate your journey with us!

-   Email alerts when events cause Chris Martenson to take personal action

-   Full access to all discussions and our vibrant online community

This is a premium article that has been shared with you. To access, please create a free account.

Sorry, the free link has expired. You must become a member to view this content.

Sorry, the free link has expired. You must upgrade your membership to view this content.

Copyright © 2026 Peak Prosperity, LLC. All rights reserved.
