Is It Too Late? Here’s What Former CIA Senior Operations Officer Jim Erdman Thinks

Is It Too Late? Here’s What Former CIA Senior Operations Officer Jim Erdman Thinks

The second installment of this series features the CIA whistle-blower who got into hot water with his agency because of his public Senate testimony and related disclosures alleging misconduct, obstruction, and a cover-up involving COVID-19 origins assessments. Now retired, Jim is (mostly) free to speak his mind.

Can the country be saved, or is it too late?  This is the second installment of my podcast series examining these questions.

Today we’re joined by Jim Erdman, a retired CIA senior operations officer, Army Ranger veteran, and co-founder of Feds for Freedom, who initially joined the government after 9/11 out of a sincere desire to help the country and catch bad guys.

Looking back, Jim thinks that 9/11 was the breaking point for the U.S.  That’s when elements within the government used and misused the trauma of 9/11 to dramatically expand budgets, surveillance, and executive powers while congressional oversight steadily eroded.

Jim’s personal breaking point happened during COVID.  After initially trusting government institutions, Erdman says the pandemic response convinced him that multiple federal agencies abandoned ethical standards, entirely abandoned their missions to help their fellow citizens while coordinating right-stripping policies from the top down.

After many years of experience, Jim’s view is that the near-total lack of accountability for high-level people is one of the biggest problems we face.  Whether they’re just really bad at their jobs and deserve to be fired, or have engaged in criminal activities, nothing ever happens.  So, nothing ever changes.  At least for the better.  Things do change for the worse without accountability.

Washington DC, he says, is now operating a ‘blob’ that outlasts any particular presidency or elected official, and carries on with its own sets of incentives and no fear of being ousted by citizens voting or complaining.

So, can the country be saved?  Yes, he says, if enough people stand up and demand that change.  But he also recognizes the difficulties of that given the fact that our voting processes and systems are, shall we say, vulnerable.

Can the country be saved?  Maybe.  But first, some things will have to change.  One of the main things is that we’re going to have to bring accountability back to the powerful.

10:46 When An Intelligence Officer Started Questioning The System

I have to make this comment after listening to him. WTH is he saying?

Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use, Privacy Policy, and Transparency Statement.
