WTC 7 fell at free-fall speeds for 2.25 seconds. Ergo, the NIST report on he collapse is not just inadequate, but erroneous. It’s time for a new investigation conducted by competent people who don’t have any conflicts of interest.

Here, on the 25th anniversary of 9/11, I am drawn to examine the evidence again.

On 9/11, two buildings were struck by airplanes, but three buildings collapsed.  WTC 7 was one of them, and it fell at free-fall speed for 2.25 seconds.

That fact alone completely invalidates the official version of events, which is that uncontrolled fires somehow caused a major beam to expand and walk off of its attachment plate, thereby initiating a progressive collapse of the rest of the building.

The key word there is “progressive,” which refers to something happening over time.

But there was no progression of failure traveling from one side of the massive 47-story WTC 7 building to the other, but instead the simultaneous initiation of freefall of all four corners of the building

And by “freefall,” I mean that the corners of WTC 7 fell at the same pace as a bowling ball tossed from the roof at the moment of collapse.  The dropped bowling ball and the corner of the building would have tracked each other for a full 2.25 seconds (~81 feet).

The only way something can fall at free-fall speeds is if it’s encountering no resistance.  As in none.  If something is encountering resistance but still falls at free-fall speeds, then not one but two physical laws have been broken.

Grok got super defensive when I asked this about WTC 7 directly, so I asked about what laws would have been broken if a guy falling into a big stack of boxes didn’t slow down at all:

The boxes would have been the ~4,000 tons (8 million pounds) of structural steel that would have occupied the distance of the free fall.  For WTC 7 to have fallen at free-fall speed despite millions of pounds of structural steel in the way requires me to do something I will do for no government report: suspend the laws of physics.

Another oddity is this weird collection of completely burned-up cars and a bus at the corner of West Broadway and Barclay streets, which is a whopping 632 feet away from the closest corner of the collapsed North Tower.

For a building that was supposedly pancaking on itself due to some fires more than 100 floors up in the air, the North Tower sure caught a lot of things on fire somehow that were very far away.

But the strongest evidence?  Especially for a science guy like myself?  It’s this piece of steel from WTC 7 that FEMA analyzed and found that it had undergone extreme oxidation to the point that the steel was vaporized.

You can appreciate this by comparing the object on the left with an equivalent sort of steel I-beam:

What could have caused such violent heat that it vaporized a steel beam?  Not an office fire, that’s for sure.

Which fits with the melted concrete artifacts found in the basements of WTC 1, 2, and WTC 6, like this one showing a gun barrel fused with concrete:

Where did all this heat come from?  If it cannot have come from typical office furnishings, then we have to consider other sources, such as Thermate (a militarized form of Thermite).

The answers to the freefall and excessive heat questions remain unsatisfactorily answered, and that’s why I support a new and objective investigation of these phenomena.

And I’d begin with WTC 7.  It is the proverbial smoking gun.

This has been really eye-opening so far. At least for me. The presentations are packed with first responders. They all lost friends...

Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use, Privacy Policy, and Transparency Statement.
