Legendary resource investor and analyst Adam Rozencwajg says the oil investment thesis is now firmly rooted in both the near term due to the Iranian and Russian conflicts, but also the long terms due to massive underinvestment that will need to be remedied.

It’s time once again for my quarterly review of all things oil-related with the top-shelf resource investor and analyst Adam Rozencwagj.

Like all of us, Adam has had to adjust his views of how the oil markets work given the massive gap between crude oil prices and oil products such as diesel.  Adam’s view is that the oil crisis has been delayed, not permanently deferred.

The reasons are now better understood.  First, there was the time buffer built into all of the oil ships already out of the Gulf when the war started, having to plod their way to their destinations.  Second, there was a large release of oil from strategic reserves operating exactly as intended, buffering the shock.  Third there was a “peace deal” surge of trapped oil tankers the suddenly exited the Gulf in June.  Fourth was China’s unique ability to cut its imports by 40% to 50% while living off of its truly massive reserves.

But the hole in the global oil supply chain will not be easily or quickly remedied.  Estimates put the missing barrels somewhere north of 2 billion barrels, with the head of Saudi Aramco recently placing it at 2.6 billion barrels.

The world has recently woken up to the idea that the real problem is in refined products rather than crude. Refinery disruptions in the Middle East, Russia, and especially China may have shifted the shortage downstream into gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. Poor visibility into global refined-product inventories makes this a major blind spot.

Alert observers have had to become familiar with ‘crack spreads’ and are tracking the price of diesel rather than crude.  With the diesel crack spread having exploded from a normal $20-$30/barrel to over $100/barrel, diesel is selling as if oil were $70-$80 per barrel higher than is currently the case.

Meanwhile, there are no signs of demand destruction.  Flights are actually up yr./yr.  Roads are packed, and economies are still in growth mode.  Supporting this is the fact that inventories are declining, which is a sure sign that demand is higher than supply.

In the background, Adam is truly an expert on the minutiae of where the US is in the shale oil story.  And it’s the details that matter to investors (not oil traders).

The US shale boom has reached its limits, Adam convincingly argues.  It was fun while it lasted, but the entire story now rests with one shale field, the Permian, and in just a small handful of counties within that play.

The subdued price for crude oil is, unhelpfully, causing a very lackluster response within the domestic oil production companies, with many of them either holding Capex steady or actually having reported they intend to reduce it this year and next.

Again, from an investment point, Adam noted that the opportunity here is that roughly $1.5 trillion per year for a decade may be needed to rehabilitate and recapitalize the global energy industry, compared with approximately $550 billion currently being spent.

If these funds do not materialize, then the world will have to find a way to live on less oil.  It’s a matter of geology at this point.

Adam shared my long-held view that the only way for this to sort itself out is with much higher oil prices to both squash demand and stimulate production.  But what if that price adjustment happens too quickly?  That’s when financial market and economic chaos can result.

We also discussed the potential for the Iran and Russia wars to spill over into agriculture. Disruptions to phosphate, ammonia, urea, sulfur and LNG supplies are tightening fertilizer availability just as a potentially powerful El Niño threatens to increase weather volatility.

Food markets may be unusually vulnerable to even a modest agricultural shock. Global grain demand has risen substantially while recent crop yields have been exceptionally strong. But with drought already widespread and fertilizer availability constrained, a single poor growing season could have an outsized impact on prices.

Adam’s message is that dangerous complacency has somehow taken root in our financial markets. Are we living through the calm before the storm, or will it be the calm that deflects the storm?

01:01:30 The Crisis May Be Worse Than It Looks

-   Adam Rozencwajg: The Greatest Energy Shock in History Is Unfolding

[Adam Rozencwajg: The Greatest Energy Shock in History Is Unfolding]

Originally published at: The Oil Supply Shock Hiding in Plain Sight – Peak Prosperity

It’s time once again for my quarterly review of all things oil-related with...

Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use, Privacy Policy, and Transparency Statement.
