The Bond Vigilantes Are Back! And Bessent’s Black Magic Is No Match

The Bond Vigilantes Are Back! And Bessent’s Black Magic Is No Match

I’m back with another ripping podcast with Philip Pilkington which is not to be missed. Huge events are underway and Philip’s deep experience and broad context are vital to making sense of the world.

This week I am back with Philip Pilkington, who has quite rapidly become one of my favorite sources of context and information.

Philip lives in Europe so we began by discussing the enormous challenges Europe is facing, especially Germany, due to disastrous leadership and policy choices.

In particular, Germany’s industrial base – the source of the majority of its prosperity – has been sacrificed upon a green altar.  This part of the conversation should be quite sobering to anyone living there, and serve as a cautionary tale to people living elsewhere.

Prosperity does not result from feel-good alternative energy slogans and government redistribution programs.  It comes from real people working hard while taking real-world risks while supported by abundant and cheap energy.

Our conversation then turned to the Treasury interventions and their short-lived results.  Philip argued that attempting to force down long-term rates while inflationary pressures are rising risks pushing the problem from the bond market into the currency.  In other words, it’s financial repression, which places the majority of the burden on those who can least afford it.

Which means the dollar itself may be the ultimate constraint.  How far is this administration willing to go to evade reality?  If the SPR drawdowns are any indication, the answer is “all the way.”

But, perhaps the U.S. Treasury has less leeway than imagined.  The so-called bond vigilantes are once again awakened and making ominous noises.  Once thought extinct, they seem to be back and as dangerous as ever to DC’s free-spending habits.

Philip thinks we’ve 2-4 years for all this to play out.  I think that’s possible, but it’s equally possible that the timeline is far more compressed than that, with my own hopes are for another 6-12 months before things turn ugly.

What’s the answer for everyone?  The same script as before:  become resilient and don’t have all your eggs in the dollar basket.

01:11:00 The Dollar Isn’t the Only Game in Town

Originally published at: The Bond Vigilantes Are Back! And Bessent’s Black Magic Is No Match – Peak Prosperity

This week I am back with Philip Pilkington, who...

Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use, Privacy Policy, and Transparency Statement.
