We work for the advertiser and our job is to manipulate the viewer [music] to acquire their attention for as long as possible on behalf of the advertiser,
which [music] is how we make the most money.
[music]
Welcome everyone to this podcast series asking the question, is it [music] too late? And many people, myself included, feel like the United States is pretty
much headed in the wrong direction, as in disastrously wrong. And so the questions arise, can the US be saved? Or
is it too late? And by saved, I mean, what do I mean? It's a can we return to a country that offers a fair shake to all its citizens, not just the 0.1%.
with equal justice for all not just the Epstein class and that provides a livable future in which our young most importantly in which they can believe.
Now the fourth estate the media in my estimation has been failing us for years and it's my view that media is rapidly
becoming worse at holding government accountable providing unbiased factual reporting holding up truth to power be
that corporate or governmental power. I mean, that's its number one job, right?
And I'm not alone. A 2025 Gallup poll revealed a startling slide in confidence in the media, stating, quote, "Americans
confidence in the mass media has edged down to a new low with just 28% expressing a great deal or a fair amount
of trust in newspapers, television, and radio to report the news fully, accurately, and fairly. And this is down from 31% in 2024, 40% from 5 years ago.
And meanwhile, meanwhile, seven in 10 adults, US adults now say they have not very much confidence or none at all in
media. Republicans confidence has dropped to single digits, 8% for the first time in the trend. Independents trust has not reached the majority level since 2003.
And the latest 27% reading matches last year's historical low, they say here.
And finally, for Democrats, the narrowest of majorities, 51% now expressed trust in the media. All right.
End quote. Um, going out on a limb, I'm going to presume the majority of those that still are expressing trust in the media are boomers who are somewhat
famously resistant to grasping that they're being lied to. And maybe we'll get to that in this podcast. But clearly, we're not going to be fixing
anything anything with the media constantly leading us astray, comprehensively failing at their most sacred duty of shining bright lights on
uncomfortable topics. So to explore this with us today is Dylan Ratigan. For 30 years, he sat in the rooms where money,
media, and power actually operate. He built Bloomberg's corporate finance desk, created CNBC's Fast Money, and
hosted MSNBC's highest rated daytime show. And then right at the peak of his career, Dylan walked away, not because
he'd run out of things to say, but because talking wasn't enough. New York Times best-selling author, relentless critic of the unholy alliance between
government and greed. A man who left the studio to try building something better, and who came back with a stories only
someone who's been inside can tell. Hey Dylan, welcome to this podcast.
It's a pleasure. Thanks for having me, Chris.
Chapter 2: Why The Media Has Lost Trust
So, where where do we start? Um do you agree uh media's media is failing and um
and how do you how do you know that if it the answer is yes?
I mean obviously the answer is yes. The answer the real question is not is it failing the question is why and what
could possibly be done about it. I would even go so far as to say the media has failed um much as I would go so far as to say the congress has failed, the
government has failed. I mean the the the fact that everybody by the time whatever your numbers were 70% 80% of the people have lost confidence it's
over in terms of because because confidence and trust is the core asset of any institutional relationship in any country whether it's the people in the
government or the people in the media if the confidence and trust is gone it's over. Now, you can look at the numbers and say, "Oh, well, there's still some
audience for this channel or there's still some audience for that channel." But even year-over-year, those audience numbers are in decline. And obviously,
the current president who is the the greatest uh empressario of attention in the history of the world has been a gold
mine uh for the media companies. But absent his provocations, uh there there's really nothing there.
Uh the simple answer is I think something most people already know but I'll I'll just say it okay if it's failing though I don't
understand this because um you know I worked in business for a while any business where you suddenly start seeing your revenues fall off your core
business assets start to hemorrhage sooner or later it becomes a question of survival right so sooner or later you think self-interest would take over uh
we're watching Nike just absolutely plummet because they forgot their core mission I don't know if they can turned that company around, right? Because they suddenly forgot it was about athletes
and became about other policies, DEI and various things. Off topic, but media more generally, they're clearly
hemorrhaging. What What's preventing them from noticing that and fixing it?
Chapter 3: Outrage Is The Business Model
Because the money still rolls in because the way you make money in the modern media landscape which is not unique to the traditional media companies. It is
universal to all content in whether it's across the social media and new media universe or whether it's the traditional
media universe which is to provoke a reaction in your audience is the way that you make money. Now
think about the gap between the things that provoke sexual content provokes
extremist political content provokes outrage bait
which may be the number one product in engendering irrational fear. So
promoting the perception of crisis where it is not promoting the perception of global
extremism and catastrophe where it is not promoting conflict in every single
interaction when solution or discussion would be vastly more valuable.
Those those things are fundamental to the media business because the media business makes money by acquiring the
attention of human beings. And we look at the media and say, "Oh, well, the media needs to tell us the truth." And
the media needs to tell us the whole truth. And they need to confront uh the the things that are undisussed. They
need to confront the things that we never talk about. all these sort of moral or ethical perceptions that we project onto the media,
none of which exist in the business. So if it was financially profitable to do
that, they might be doing that. But the reality is it's much more likely that
media new media platforms like yours, new media undertakings like the one I've only started a month ago and then
Chapter 4: Why Executives Refuse To Change
there's a hundred others are actually much more likely to become the the trusted
narrator of the world. And the reason for that, whether it's Nike or whether it's CNN or whether it's NBC or whether
it's Fox, is when the money is coming in, the amount of risk you have to take to
completely alter your posture is something that is counter to the
interests of the people that run the organization. So let the way a media organization works the people that are most senior so let's
say the the man the CEO of the network and let's say the next five or 10 five or six senior executives. Mhm.
They live their lives trying not to get fired.
M when your decisionmaking filter as an executive is to avoid getting fired, the
easiest way not to get fired is to continue to do what has been done in a way that you can then transfer
responsibility for the outcomes to someone else.
If you walk in as the new boss at CNN or I walk in as the new boss at Fox and I say, "Party's over, new deal. We're
telling the truth. We're doing Chris Martinsson style, Dylan Ratigan style, you know, the sort of truthtelling and it doesn't work, I'm fired for sure.
If I go into Fox or you go into CNN and we say, "Listen, we're just going to cover the president. We'll do both side.
We'll do the whole he said, she said nonsense, and if it doesn't work, it's not our fault."
that is actually the primary organizing principle for decisionmaking.
And so the networks that become the most interesting to look at are the ones that are the lowest on the totem pole. So if
if the the ones that are rating the highest, which right now I think is Fox and MS Now and in the traditional universe [snorts]
are the ones that are always going to take the least amount. They're going to continue to do what's working long after it stopped working because it's the
easiest way to keep your milliondoll salary as an executive and not get fired, which is the primary
organizing principle for what happens in these organizations. M it's only when an institution is in extreme stress
and has already basically failed which might be CNN right now by the way that they then become more willing to take
more risks but generally the organizing principle is don't get fired and the best way not
to get fired is to do what we've always done and be able to blame someone else for the outcome if it comes back uh in a
pear-shaped fashion, right? So, I imagine that um you know, the very powerful motivator not to lose your job and and um keep your paycheck
going. But I just have to wonder, Dylan, that you young journalism grad out of Colombia comes into some mass media place and on
one hand they're going home probably on what I'm going to call like a very low peanut salary. Like, you know, they're probably barely surviving for a while
and and they're noticing how hard everything's getting and then on the other hand, they're being asked to write basically fluff pieces that have no bearing on anything.
When does when does that sense of like personal integrity or or like I got into this because I believed in telling a
good story in a truthful way became immediately as like don't don't rock the boat and and tell stuff that's completely meaningless while you watch
your own life out of sync with everything. I doesn't this create a conflict for people?
It does. But you have an a core assumption in that that I don't know that it's true.
The people that populate certainly the television news organizations are not morally driven Colombia journalism graduates.
Now they may be at the Wall Street Journal. They may be at the Financial Times. They may be at the New York Times. So the writing the writers I
think are more likely to resemble some version of the character traits that you just described.
But consumption of written content in the papers is at an all-time low.
audiovisisual has taken over. So the relevance of those institutions is also at an an all-time low.
But still from a self-preservation standpoint, they must have noticed like you say, okay, the most highly rated show might be Fox, but it's chump change
compared to Joe Rogan, um Tucker Carlson, Candace Owens, like you just go down the top 10 podcast list and those
numbers are absolutely crushing these numbers. And you would think at some point they would go, "Hey, wait a minute. Maybe we should try some of that." and you'd find out what these
people are doing is to the best of their ability exploring interesting topics in a truthful way.
Wouldn't that catch on at some point? It would if there was a real economic motivation. There's a huge difference
Chapter 5: Why Traditional Media Ignores Its Audience
between you at the C as a CEO at Fox or me as a CEO at CNN and being in the top 10 most popular podcasts in America.
The top 10 most popular podcasts in America generally function with a very sensitive
relationship to the economics of their audience size.
So if they have a big audience, there's a strong economic benefit for that. If their audience collapses, there's a strong strong economic penalty for that.
Cable news doesn't work that way.
Cable news negotiates a percentage of the overall cable fees from Time Warner or Comcast or whoever
in a way that is completely insensitive to audience size but for occasional contract renegotiations in those fees which might happen every 5 or 10 years.
So if you're in a business that is effectively subsidized without any sensitivity to the audience,
it makes the reactivity that you are imagining would exist much less. I'll tell you a story. When I was hosting, you mentioned I the daytime show that I
did at MSNBC after I left CNBC was for the time that it was there was the highest rated daytime show on the network at the time, which you would
think would have some economic merit. I would because, oh, Dylan's got a big audience in the afternoon. That means we can make
more money. And I thought I had merit, too, as you can imagine, as did my agent.
And so, I went to the to the management and I said, "Listen, this show is crushing." Um, and I'm getting direct
inbound from large organizations, the largest steel companies in America, for instance, saying they want to do
dedicated sponsorship. So I had one of the largest steel companies in America come as I was doing a lot of work on
jobs and manufacturing and very critical of the Clinton trade policies and just what would be some sort of Trumpian
style rhetoric advocating for the restoration of manufacturing. Now, Trump's solutions are insane, but Trump was correct in identifying that problem.
And I was very much a strong advocate of that, you know, 15 years ago. And so, it was attracting uh multi-million dollar
ad sponsorship from, as I mentioned, some large industrial companies in the United States.
And I thought that that I was doing a good job. When I walked into this this management and the and the uh sales team, I said, "Listen, here's a here's a
you know a small but nine figure check that wants to do a dedicated sponsorship for
uh my show." The response was anger. What?
Yeah. The response was, "How dare you?" How dare you what? Bring money. How dare
you make our sales team look bad? It's not your job.
We have a system. They go to Yankees games. We do pack. One, you're making the sales team look bad.
Two, we don't sell the shows as individual products. So the Chris Martinson show is a standalone product and it has an economic life or the Dylan
Ratigan Substack has a this little economic engine or these big Joe Rogan has this giant economic engine but it's tied to the audience for that product.
The network is selling across all of the shows as a package.
And in fact, the network, the reason they have all this bundling is they say, "Well, if you want to be on our most
popular NBC show, I mean, this is different now because they've divided, but in my in my time, if you want placement on the Super Bowl, you want
placement on the Tonight Show, whatever the real the Today Show, whatever the real barn burner audiences were, we will
give you that placement, but you must also buy the entire daytime package of MSNBC, you must also buy the entire
daytime daytime package of Fox. And so the economic relationship between ad sponsorship and shows was much more
about exerting leverage against the largest ad buyers, the car companies, Proctor and Gamble, Ford, etc., who have
the biggest ad budgets, and then exploiting their desire to be. So that you really want to be on the Chris
Martinsson show. Can't help you unless you also cut a check for my buddy Dylan Ratigan.
I can't and and so there's two things that are happening in the media structurally.
One, the cable subscriber fees that come in are not the same thing as a subscriber fee for a podcast where they can come and go on YouTube or Substack
or whatever the platform is. They are multi-year negotiations that are then audience indifferent.
that eliminates economic reactivity.
And then you have the decision not to sell shows as individual institutions, but rather to create these bundles and
baskets over huge swasts of content that you can then basically buffer and mark everything up as opposed to being held to account for your audience size.
The cable networks know that the size of their audience can't compete with the large audiences that exist in the new media. And the way they compensate for
that is by buffering that that audience size by hiding it inside of a bundled
averages and then arguments about the elite nature of the the the decision makers who watch the show. Everybody who
matters watches X Fast Money or Everybody who mad. So it's not just Fast Money does I don't it's I don't know this about Fast Money right now. I'm
just using it because it was a show that I was involved with.
They don't um sell it based on its audience size. They sell it based on the prestige of the
overall situation and then leverage the whatever the most valuable product at the time is as a way to back people in.
It's a complicated way of saying that the sensitivity of new media economics which are hugely influential in terms of what content people do and how they
publish and when they publish and what they do and have great rewards and great penalties for all of us in the new media world. I mean, I'm a I'm a one month
into it, but I I I'm I'm now sort of jumped into the water with everybody. Um those that that economic sensitivity
does not exist in the traditional media universe, which I believe is the primary reason why you don't see. So the
combination of job retention by not getting fired and the absence of economic penalty for poor performance on
an institutional level combined with the ego of
presuming to be the the flag bearer for first amendment rights while actually not providing it. So you have huge sense
of grandiosity, a disconnection from reality
and absence of penalty for bad performance, including small audiences.
All right. Well, um, thank you for explaining that.
Nike is not even the best example because Nike actually has been penalized. People stop buying their sneakers, right?
Yeah. No, they actually have some feedback that that's going to catch them up. Yeah.
At some point. Yo. Right. Yeah, but maybe not. You know, uh, Kodak didn't catch on to digital cameras, right? It's amazing how resistant
certain mindsets can be. But but first, Blackberry, Blackberry controlled the entire communication market. Now it's worthless.
Chapter 6: How Access Journalism Protects Power
Okay, the economics. I worked in corporations. I I get it. Um, you know, you get the the Peter principle is alive and well and and and they somehow have
their own inertia and I get all of that, but but there's something else going on here, I think, too, which is and I don't believe that there's a smoky room with
guys with cigars who call up reporters and say, "Don't do that." I think reporters must know which side the bread is buttered on. So, by way of example,
where I really lost my connection was watching the New York Times promote the Iraq war back under Bush, right?
aluminum tubes, Judith Miller, and they were just promoting lies. They were stenographers for this little click of like easily discoverable CADs, Pearl,
Feath, Rumsfeld, Wolawitz, that crowd, right? And they completely failed in their job and they inarguably killed a lot of Iraqis and damaged my country.
And the consequence for that was zero.
Um, nothing happened to them. They had to apologize, I think, on page C16 5 years later or something. And but I
watch this and I see that our media is constantly just a narrative machine for what I call the DC war machine. It's
almost seamless. How does that actually work in practice? There is no smoky room that I'm aware of.
There is an unspoken culture that the media does not challenge power
because access is the most important thing.
So the frame in this case we must invo we must invade Iraq.
It is not the media's job to challenge that frame. Is their perception.
It's the media's job to understand why they believe it's that frame. Regardless of the reasons why are lies, as you
pointed out, but it is not the media's job in their mind
to actually challenge the frame. Another great example, not as lethal, was the healthcare debate.
Everybody understands that actual health care is frontloaded on preventative medicine.
That waiting until people are chronically ill to then medicate them and hospitalize them is profoundly
profitable for the hospital health insurance and pharmaceutical industry and has nothing to do with health.
Yep. So when they brought forward the health insurance debate or the excuse me the healthcare they said they're going to reform health care
there was not a single discussion of healthcare and what health is not one the entire discussion was
how are we going to pay for the existing methods of how we provide so-called health care which is to abandon people
on a preventative basis invest nothing upfront, actually poison the food supply,
and then find a way to monetize their chronic illness in a way that is the most profitable for us.
Mhm.
No one said this isn't healthcare. I I mean I to I will say I said it, but I
was a lone you know if if a if a bear, you know, poops in the woods is anybody if you're the only one,
it's it's a pretty rough It doesn't matter. It's not even that it's rough. It's irrelevant.
Um and so I think your question is why is the media that way? The media is that way because because the media views
themselves more. You look look at the White House correspondents dinner. The media views themselves much more as
one of the elite than they do as the actual advocate for the American people.
The American people are a an icon that gives them moral justification for their
existence, but their actual nights and days are spent entirely in the company of the
government officials and the corporate officials who are exploiting the American people. and confronting those
government officials and confronting um those corporate officials simply gets you all your access is cut off. I I
remember when I like one of the most wonderful things about being at Bloomberg especially in the early days was it was really a viewer reader
audiencedriven mandate in the company uh more so than any other media organization that I was associated with.
that just the incentives were much healthier to actually try to do that and
the movement from that from that value system when I from when I went to CNBC I mean I we Mike Bloomberg would say who we would say who do we work for and Mike
would say we work for the reader to give them the truth we work for the audience to tell them what's happening that's our customer you don't work Mike would say you don't work for Bloomberg you work
for the Bloomberg customer and if you make the Bloomberg customer happy and give them good information then it will be good for Bloomberg. When I went to
CNBC and they asked who do we work for and I gave the answer, oh we work for the viewer to give them good information, I was literally laughed out of the room.
Chapter 7: When Journalists Stop Serving The Audience
What's the answer?
We work for the advertiser and our job is to manipulate the viewer to acquire their attention [music] for as long as possible on behalf of the advertiser which is how we make the most money.
Hi, I'm [music] Dr. Dr. Chris Martinson.
The news isn't just wrong. It's a lie [music] and it's costing you.
Inflation's a freight train. Resources are vanishing [music] and they're still pedalling the everything's fine story.
Well, I'm done with it. As your information scout at Peak Prosperity, [music] I ripped through the web reports, raw accounts to expose what's
real. Energy crisis, economic unraveling, all backed up [music] by hard evidence. and I'll correct myself
if I miss, but I won't stop. You're in the crosshairs of this [music] mess.
Subscribe now, see the truth, and fight back with me.
The failings are extraordinary. So, so for probably 20 years now, I've just wanted one reporter that goes to these
Fed press releases. So, the Federal Reserve, right, a popular topic of mine.
I actually think they're doing things, Dylan, that need to be really held up to the bright light because they're not conducting monetary policy. They're not there for full employment and stable
prices. They are conducting a sociological experiment where they discover what happens when you transfer most of the wealth to the.1% and throw
the younger generations completely under the bus wheels. And I think somebody ought to hold their hand up and ask them about that. So, hey, what's your plan here? You're you're engaging in social
experimentation. What's your training in this? What's your end goal? How do you measure success? All of that. or secondarily is you're expanding your balance sheet and bailing out assets all the time. What's your exit strategy?
Walk me through it. Right.
The reporter that asked that question will be thrown out of the room.
I think I think one guy Carlos I forgot his last name now, but he asked a question of Janet Yellen which was about some internal intrigue and and I think
there was um some inside information that got inaccurately telegraphed.
Anyway, he asked about that, got booted and that was the end of that. Never set foot in that organization again. access is is the thing and and that really is a
failing a failure of the leadership of the news organizations and it's also just a byproduct of the fragmentation.
You know, it used to be if you wanted to get your message out, I'm going back decades now. You you couldn't avoid so
the the best the healthiest version would in my opinion is Mike Wallace or Tim Ruster. So Mike Wallace was the correspondent for 60 Minutes, very
famous and very hard interview, very confrontational. Why would somebody do an interview with Mike Wallace? Only two
reasons. One, because the large audience was only available through there was only one door to walk through.
Same thing with Tim Rustard on Meet the Press in its long ago incarnation. It's a shadow of itself now, obviously.
And two, the owners of the network didn't let the guest decide who interviews them. There was something
that I witnessed at CNBC that was horrifying to me, which was
the guest was able to decide who the anchor was that would interview them.
And so if you were an anchor who was known for giving hard interviews, the guest would say, "I'll come on the
network, but I'm not going to sit with whoever, Dylan, or I'm not going to sit with, you know, Mike Haynes, somebody who is adversarial. I want to be with
this person or that person because I'm friends with this person or that person, and I know they'll give me a softball interview." Now, in the Bloomberg days,
if I walked into the room and said, "Oh, I've got a interview with the prime minister of Russia,"
they wouldn't say, "Oh, well, because you've made the relationship and the prime minister likes you, Dylan. You get to do the interview." They would say,
"That's great. We have a Russia expert reporter who will do that interview, but thank you. good job bringing in that booking, but you're not doing that
interview and you don't and you haven't earned the right to do the interview because you um seduced or softalled or charmed the the CEO, which is the primary action today.
And I don't mean seduced in the most literal sense, but in the in the metaphorical sense, although all the everything is possible.
And so because ma management at Bloomberg would not indulge that, but at CNBC, at MSNBC, at Fox, at CNN,
one, the guest is looking to select the person who's going to give them the most softball interview. And two, you have people that are invested in presenting
themselves to the government officials and the CEOs as the friendliest and most softball person that then gets them to secure the booking.
Mhm.
And then you have the management of the network allowing that catastrophic behavior. It's a catastrophic betrayal
of the audience to allow the weakest counterparty for the for the interview,
who's going to be the most likely to get the interview, to be the person who does the interview. So, there used to be a world where the editor-inchief had the power to say, "Great job, Chris.
I'm happy you got Elon Musk for an interview." But in the scope of everybody that works at CNN or MSNBC or
whatever the organization, it it really never existed at those organizations.
Those are bad examples. But let's maybe the Financial Times, let's say, you're not the guy to do the interview. We have somebody else who's an expert in
electric vehicles and an expert in space and an expert in AI, whatever the expertise is. And our obligation is to
the audience. And that is a critical I believe you know I the of everything that has completely screwed up the media
insensitivity to audience loss because of price insensitivity and subscriber fees is a big one. one, two,
working to not lose your job. And then three, allowing the guest to select the weakest
person to do the interview and elim and then that being even more empowered by the fragmentation where then you no
longer have to go deal with Mike Wallace if you want to get your message out. You no longer have to go sit with Tim Russard if you want to get the message
out. and you don't have to sit with Dylan Ratigan at CNBC if you want to get the message out. You can pick an easier counterparty. I lived it. It was very frustrating.
Chapter 8: Advertising And The Price Of Silence
So, I I love all those three. I'm going to I'm going to see if a fourth lands for you. Um and and this is advertising is bribes. Okay. So we saw this during
co like the you know complete failure to sort of question Fizer but Fizer is putting out a lot of ads to pick on just one company right and I watched these
ads you know I was trying to watch um the last Olympics on peacock right and and it was just one pharma ad after
another for like almost orphan drugs like who has scaly left big toenails I don't know you know and and so clearly
they're not hoping that I watch that ad and go ask for that particular drug and that that's actually a reasonable path to success. That's a buy off to the
corporation so that they don't ask any hard questions. Same thing. I watched this I was watching something and and an ad for an F-22 comes up. Northrup Grumman and I'm like, "Ah, Dylan, I got
to go buy an F-22 right away."
[laughter]
Right. So, what are those ads? They look like bribes to me, right? It's just clearly they're just running the ads without any sense that they're going to sell more F22s, right?
They're doing that to pay off the corporation.
Yeah. There's a a 1 million% agreement on my part. I I' I'm remiss not to have brought it up in the first
place. The greatest example is big pharma. Um big pharma is deserving of extremely critical coverage. Although I
who am I to say the defense industry is equally deserving, but the pharma industry um
has been subsidizing the evening news for decades.
There is absolutely no reason for any of those advertisements but for to create a
legal channel to funnel money from big pharma to the media to avoid any and all criticism and it is disgusting. I would say it's diabolical.
Agreed. So let let me talk about too there's there's two ways that I sort of score the media. Um sins of commission.
They just straight up lie. I catch them all the time. Just straight up get the facts wrong. don't correct them in a meaningful time frame. And then there's sins of omission where I'm like, why is
this not being reported on? And it it's pretty much it's it's not like it's just sort of missing in some organizations like like say the Epstein reporting was
just missing across all of them. All of them. I can't believe that. Come on.
This is salacious. It involves sex and crimes and power and billionaires and politicians. This has got to be as juicy
as it gets. CIA, MSAD, it's a Bond movie, all of it. And it was just silence, radio silence on that. Again, how does this happen?
So, I believe first of all that the sins of omission are vastly bigger and more dangerous than the sins of commission. Mhm.
Not that the sins of commission don't exist, but the sins of commission are more easily identifiable, especially in the modern digital way.
The sins of omission are vastly [snorts] more diabolical to go back to that same word.
And the reason the sins of omission are so widespread
is because there are untouchable topics because of the simple reason that touching them. So what what you have to
understand is the people inside the the the the high highriced camerafacing
talent and the high-priced senior management are people. They're not robots. And they're people that aspire
to a nice upper middle class or fancy boy, fancy girl lifestyle in either Manhattan or Washington DC.
The other people who enjoy that lifestyle and really control the rooms are the very people that are most in need of interrogation.
So Epstein is the ultimate example, but the entire banker class in Manhattan worthy of extreme interrogation.
The entire senior government official class worthy of extreme interrogation.
the pharma CEOs, you go down the list, the defense CEOs, the oil executives who are gouging our faces off right now,
pretending that it's you're using the war as a justification to rip our faces off in the energy markets.
But the people that we have empowered with the keys to the car that is the
largest media platforms in our country are either part they're sitting at the
same dinner table on in the Park Avenue apartments or in the Hamptons or in Georgetown or they aspire to sit at those tables.
And the shest way not to sit at the table in Georgetown or not to sit at the table on Park Avenue or not to sit at the table in Eastampton is to ask the wrong questions.
And so it becomes a self organizing system of omission.
Epstein is the best example. Bill Cosby is another great example. Interesting.
Harvey Weinstein was another great example. Yep.
Everybody wants to go to the movie premiere. Harvey's a scumbag, but if I come out and say Harvey's a scumbag, I'm off the list.
Now, that was fascinating. I love that one where um Rose Macauen finally raises her hand and says, "Hey, he's a scumbag." And all of a sudden, the Clintons drop him and he gets fired and
DAS are looking into him. It was like all of a sudden it just it turns on you. It you know, all of a sudden it can.
Carter who runs Vanity Fair is at the dinner table on Park Avenue in the Hamptons with Harvey and Jeffrey.
They're all Everybody's in the same room. It's a very small world.
Chapter 9: When Private Knowledge Becomes Common Knowledge
Yeah, very small.
Well, this at the top this gets to a very important topic for me, which is this idea of moving from private knowledge to common knowledge.
And it's it's enshrined in in the book The Emperor Has No Clothes, right? And what happens is everybody's privately sitting in the audience watching the
emperor walk up naked. They all we all know that my own eyes tell me he's naked, but it's not until the little girl, the emissary goes yells it out,
hey, he's naked. And then everybody knows that everybody knows the same thing. And then things change really quickly. Um, not because the facts
change, but because they became sociologically okay. Like now that we know that everybody knows, everybody knows he can do this, right? And and for me it's
watching there's this famous film of Shashescu giving this speech in Romania.
Hate it. He and his wife hate it. And this big crowd and then this little noise starts in the back of the crowd and it you just watch it come all the
way across the audience and you watch his hands sort of waiver and within 48 hours I think they'd been lined up out back and shot. Right. So, so I think one
of the things that the media is in charge of is making sure that we don't get the common knowledge about things, particularly about power and what it's
up to, right? The most shocking statistic to me right now, Dylan, is that in the last 6 years, pretty much
100% of all the gains have gone to the 0.1%. It's a shocking accumulation of power.
And these people are untouchable apparently. That's what Epstein teaches us. And so we are creating an untouchable class of people who are supra to the government. A lot of people
like, "Oh, Trump, like as if that's the ceiling. Oh, Trump, Trump, Trump." No, no. There's a class of people above him, who have more power than the government because they are completely untouchable.
And nobody writes articles about that and talks about it.
I call them the transnational class. The super super rich do not have a country.
Countries. All nations, including the United States, are subordinate to the super rich. Not because the
American government doesn't have the power to reign them in. Mhm.
But because the super rich have the power to eliminate you Thomas Massie style, if you rock the boat.
Yeah.
And so the the other sort of layer in the challenge is we're all so vulnerable to the blame game like you were talking
about why doesn't people why don't people confront the Fed about their social experiment? Why don't people confront you know the Democrats, the Republicans, whatever? Because whoever
you confront it's like a hot potato. So you're like you're like the Democrats had an atrocious policy sequence between Obama and Biden.
Whether it's Israel, whether it's the health insurance moves, whether it's the inflationary spending under the Biden administration, whether it's covering up the financial crisis by Obama.
Open borders. Open borders.
And then you flip the coin, you're like, well, hang on. Trump is openly corrupt running a crypto scam, c making himself a multi-billionaire while randomly
tariffing anybody he wants and starting a a war on behalf of Israel with Iran.
insider access to his tweets. Selling 100 grand a month to find out what his policy is. And you've given one person
the ability to double the cost of energy and food globally for no apparent reason.
But it's not even about I don't want to get lost in the critiques because they're basically there's an limitless critique for the Democrats. There's a limitless critique for the Republicans.
They're different, but they're equally horrifying in in different ways.
But they share something, right? lack of accountability. Nobody's being held, nobody's feet are being held to the fire. No accountability.
Chapter 10: Beyond The Two-Party System
Empower each other because when like what's about to happen, the Democrats are about to come in in a wave in six weeks. No question about it.
Are we bringing in the Democrats in November because everybody believes in the Democratic party? I don't think that's the case. No, probably not.
But then the Democrats are going to pretend that there's this giant mandate for them even though the only reason they're coming in is because they
control the ballot access and they're the only alternative to this other awful thing. The same way Trump came in the
they both sides do it. The Republicans come in and they're like, "This is a total valid. I won in a landslide because the American people love me and believe in my vision." No, they don't.
They were so horrified by the scenile autopen checked out lunatic situation that they were like, "We'll try the lunat we'll
try the felon and hope that he gets a does something." But then the felon
comes in, runs a crypto scam, doubles global energy and food prices with a random war,
and now we're going to flop back and forth. And until we create a political
organization, Chris, that is outside the two political parties and is not shattered into the
fragments of my little audience or your little audience or even Rogan's got a huge audience. It's still a little audience. It is not until there is a
coherent like you talk about the chaiches of the Romania situation.
Until there is a coherent alignment of the American people in an engaged political way that is not seduced by the
offensiveness of either party or by the false promise from either party, but
rather is unified around the singular idea of anti-corruption
and antirust and sound money.
And those principles are universal principles that can be applied against every politician.
As long as we're trying to pick the right guy or the right girl, we're screwed.
And the reason I actually have a little bit of optimism is because I believe the resources are
in place for enough Americans to find each other.
It's what we're missing is a singular activating idea
that is not just against right everybody's anti-corruption right term limits gerrymandering money
and politics blah blah blah nobody wants to be extracted by a monopoly everybody wants to have a
competitive creative economy that forces people to offer more better faster not do less and charge more, which is what we're all living through.
Exactly. Exactly.
And everybody wants sound money so that a dollar today is a dollar tomorrow as opposed to this nonsense we're living through right now with inflation.
I want to ask you about the ticking clock in this story. So, um, Israel is obviously freaking out because uh they have a lot of support amongst the
boomers and they've lost the Gen Z almost completely. So, that's a ticking clock. You know, might have a long burn on it. Um, but it's it's coming and but
it's over. It's always now it's a m that that that that ship is sailed. It's just a matter of how long it's going to take. But that's over.
Well, and and revolutions always start with the young. And I don't necessarily mean violent, you know, gun-based revolutions, but I mean revolutions of thoughts, ideas, you know, new things,
right? It happens. And so I get the sense now that there's sort of this clinging boomer class, right? And and I'm right at the dividing line. So let's
throw me into that category so I can be self-reflective. I think that the boomer class is is um clearly just gripping onto something and they've completely
lost sight of the topic which is that because of their failure to do certain things or hold accountability or or because of whatever because of the ease
and comfort there we're leaving behind something that is unrecognizable to myself as an 18-year-old right I had opportunity it was hard I still had to
work hard but there was opportunity now I can classify this if you are under 40 and you do not already have assets you are now locked out of the system
that has been set up by your elders and they like it that way. Um, so I can feel this huge clash coming because the boomers are saying, "Hey, I got my
finger in the brass ring. Please just let me retire and and make this all work out. Just don't rock the boat for now." And the younger people are like, "Why am I paying into that system? I don't get
it." So, I think the boomers should remember to get their surprise face on when at some point in the future, these younger people come in and say, "We're not paying for all this junk. We're not
giving you your Medicare and Social Security. Can't afford it. Sorry, you you know, not going to happen.
And by the way, when we pay for your Medicare, we're not even paying for your health care. We're paying for a health insurance, pharmaceutical, and hospital system that keeps you sick.
A rapacious, disgusting system.
I could reduce health care spending by 90% and increase health by 10,000%.
Well, and I thought we were going to have that with RFK Jr. He was going to come in. He understands all of this better than either of us. And you can see how shackled he is. What did we We
got rid of red dye number three and jello in hospitals. I think that's our success.
And what was the what was the the uh pesticide they gave the legal waiver to gave it a Yep.
made him come out and do a struggle session like oh it's important for security just for now. Like oh [snorts] what happens do you think? I've asked
everybody this. And we're teeing up generation. What I when you're what you're describing to me and I actually have I I I was joking with a friend of mine who's a young reporter, a version
Chapter 11: The Hidden War Between Generations
of the Colombia journalism person that you're talking about who actually is a young reporter right now at the New York Times that that the that the real that
there's there's a bunch of narratives, right? There's the um the dollar the the currency u debasement narrative, right?
or the uni party narrative or the Israel, you know, controls America narrative.
And there's integrity to there's enough information with all these things where you can say, well, yeah, pretty much, you know, plus or minus. But the but the
core narrative that's actually being omitted from most of the media discussion, including I haven't addressed it myself, um, but I think I
will after this conversation, is generational warfare.
Yes. As we transition to a world where asset owners are the greatest beneficiaries of this economic system as
we all know and non-asset owners are annihilated. Mhm.
Two classes of people which is basically a feudal system from the dark ages after Rome fell and antithetical to the basic
American idea that any person can change the circumstances of their life through creative creativity, intelligence and hard work.
That's no longer true in a world where asset owners benefit and control all assets, meaning where you live, all the
things that that means, but most importantly, housing and mobility. And non-asset owners have no way in.
There's no amount of creativity, no amount of intellectual activity, no amount of uh hard work is going to allow
someone on what amounts to the average or even median salary to establish any
economic security of any kind. And so there will be some there's there's three pathways here, right? There's going to be people in the streets.
There's going to be um economic distress and collapsed collapses in markets
and ultimately there's going to be reform that will break up all of these monopolies
and reestablish a non a less corrupt system of government. I think we talked about this when we spoke the first time
about the three pathways from Lewis Brandeise. When you have a corrupt system, you can either perpetuate the corruption, option one. Option two, the
government takes over, which is why the DSA and the AOCC's are so horrifying because they sit on that false moral,
sanctimonious, miserable persona on the basis that well, if you just put us in charge of everything, all this
corruption will go away, which makes you want to vomit.
And then you have a third. So you have one, corruption continues, everybody's screwed. Two, different people take over, government consolidates power, and a different pool of corruption.
Everybody's screwed. Or three, active antitrust, anti-corruption in the
spirit of Teddy Roosevelt and Lewis Brandeise that will force a diminishment in the
power and resources of the.1% to the benefit of everyone else on the
planet. And the only way option three happens is with the outside political organization that must come forward
under the leadership of those who have clarity and a voice and then those who have let's say there's a hundred people
or 500 people who have the intelligence trust and voice with some audience and I would include you and I in that group.
Mhm. those 500 people even if you know you have an opin we have differences of opinion on a thousand things let's say you like trout I like salmon who you
know but we we both want to be able to go fishing we both want the river to have fish right like and so now it's not
about are we fishing for trout are we fishing for salmon or are we hiking mountains or are we swimming in lakes it's can we do any of these things and I
believe that it is actually imperative for all of us who have any standing and
any credibility to find each other, which is why I'm so grateful to have found you and not necessarily align on
ome grandiose political agenda, but to align around a very simple agenda
which is anti-corruption, antitrust and prosperity on the fundamental shared belief that we are the only country in
the world that represents the idea that any human being can come into America or be born in America and through the sheer
force of their creativity, intelligence and hard work can change the circumstances of their life. And that requires a system that gives a fair
shake as you just said. And we have now consolidated power in this super national class that controls our government and is exploiting everybody
else. And until we break that super national class up and actually reestablish a competitive
environment, nothing will happen. My biggest concern is that the pendulum is not going to move in the Teddy Roosevelt Lewis Brandeise direction or in the Dylan Ratigan Chris Martinson direction.
that it's going to swing into the socialist centralized government control
of resources as a knee-jerk response to the current levels of corruption.
And I believe it is imperative that anybody with a voice, including you and I, and I would say this to up and down
the ladder from Tucker to Rogan to everybody else, that we remember there's a third way. And that the third way is trust busting and anti-corruption.
America did it the last time there. The last time somebody an industry took a strangle hold over America like this was in the 1890s in the early 1900s with the railroads and steel and oil.
And America responded by breaking them up that we chose the third way under the leadership of Teddy Roosevelt. And the
battle is not going to be between us and the corruption. The battle is going to be between us and those who want to consolidate all the power in the government or those who want to
fearmonger for that consolidated power in the government as a way to perpetuate the current corruption. Both of which are utterly unacceptable and disastrous.
And so we have to organize the third way in a simple way that can rapidly grow and be demand and then be assigned as a
set of demands across the entire political spectrum.
Chapter 12: The Mathematics Of Compounding Wealth
I completely agree. Now [clears throat] I I I named my website back in 2008 peak prosperity double entandra. We would all like to achieve peak physical condition,
peak prosperity, but it was also meant that if we're not careful, we're going to hit this peak of prosperity. And it's because of this thing. Now I understand
you got AOC going. We have to tax the rich because we think we have a better way of spending their money. That's not what what I'm about to talk about here. What I'm about to say is a math problem.
When you have compounding is the cornerstone of your financial system.
Once I've achieved escape velocity and I can't possibly spend the compounded returns from my portfolio of assets, if
you run that spreadsheet long enough, x number of columns years out, you find out that the whole world owes one entity everything, right? It's just it's just a
math problem because you know if Bill Gates can't spend his 100red billion and that becomes 200 billion, it becomes a trillion and and so on and it just goes faster and faster. It becomes an
exponential accumulation of everything, right? So our system of money, we should have somebody in the Fed going, "Hey, wait a minute. Our system of money by
its very design leads to this thing we're now on the acceleration phase of how do we get off of that?" Either we wait until it just breaks, you know,
total actual revolution. And so JFK quote comes to mind, right? Those who would make peaceful revolution impossible make violent revolution
inevitable. And I think he was talking about guns, but I'm thinking of it's violent to me that Amumdami comes along, says to New York, "We're going to tax
all the rich people, redistribute it to the people who are going to vote for me.
When you take my money, when you take my freedom, when you take my ability to make my own decisions away, my liberty away, that's violence." So, I think we're heading towards that violent end.
But, but let me say this, Dylan. I'm sympathetic to it because no alternatives have been allowed. There's no other path.
Absolutely.
I I I I I I I couldn't agree more. I mean, I and I talk about I wrote about what you're describing as the physics of
money. We we treat money as if every dollar is the same, but it's like treating water as as if ice and steam
are the same thing. And your point was well made and I I just I I use the water the physics of money metaphor to
describe it which is once there's a large enough sum of money so a small amount of money functions like ice total
freeze can't move can't do anything no options nothing most of us even I would say up to a hundred or $200 million but
it's not just making a half a million dollars most of us even with relatively large amounts of money still function in a liquid universe flows in it flows out.
There is obviously some compounding as those numbers get bigger, but relative to what's happening at everything, let's say north of 500 million, let alone
north of 100 billion because the curve to your point is exponential. So it's doing, you know, it's one of these. And so the fact that
we don't acknowledge to your point that our refusal to acknowledge that money does not function the same that hund00 billion does not function the same way
that $10,000 or $100,000 or $500,000 functions. And the fact that we put the
entire tax burden on people who work on the liquid on money in the liquid state is where we just annihilate it for taxes.
while exempting money once it's in the gaseous state. So from me my perspective I would initiate my tax regime entirely
across the gaseous condition and say listen once you're in that sort of super compounding phase north of a half a billion north of a billion that's my
first pull because even if I'm pulling the steam off every year at 30 or 40%
it's self-perpetuating to such a degree that it is indifferent to the existence of the asset holder and has nothing to do with their quality of life. and then
use that resource to then liberate the liquid money to try to aspire. I think it should be a status symbol where like Chris Martinson made so much money in
the liquid markets that he joined the gas class and became a taxpayer and now a sudden you're you have higher status because you're like Martinson killed
like Ratigan killed it so hard with his sneaker company or with his whatever company or Martinson's you know media company doesn't matter. He did so well
he became a taxpayer. We made it to the ultimate class and now it's a point of pride. It's a point of status
as opposed to looking at the people that are in ICE as if they're like, "Oh, get your act together. Don't buy a coffee." All these condescensions to people. It's insulting.
Mhm.
And then brutally taxing the liquid condition. And you know, listen, the fact that that's not communicated is horrifying to me. And I'm so happy to
hear you say it. The other issue is no one in their right mind is going to pay taxes to a corrupt government. I wouldn't. I mean, we all do, but who if
you don't trust the government, you're you're really out of luck. And that's really where we find ourselves, which is why I think you have to start
with rebuilding the trust, antitrust, anti-corruption. Yeah. And prosperity.
We're going to need to see some some frog marched uh per walks uh from from the corrupt class. But um you know, you raised a good point here, too, because
the other area I've lost faith in, of course, is our election systems. We have these e voting machines and tabulators that return very mysterious improbable
results over and over again. And obviously they have a lot of flaws and vulnerabilities which has even been reported on to some extent not nearly enough. Um but doesn't it raise the idea that no taxation without representation?
I know that's not actually in the actual constitution those words but that's the flavor that's the spirit of it. If you can't prove to me that I'm represented
because you can't validate validate right that all those votes have been counted we can count them forwards and backwards and come up with the same
result each time. Um if you can't validate that am I represented and I'm I'm sort of waiting for that to pop up
as an idea. Um because you're right the most heavily taxed entity out there is small business. You can go upwards of 40
to 60% of your income depending on which state you live in because you dare to be productive. get out of work, take risk, hire people, you know, not take vacations.
Or the kid from Sarinac Lake in upstate New York, or the kid from Iowa that moves to Miami, New York, Dallas, Boston, and works their butt off and now
they're making $400 or $500,000 a year, and they're getting murdered for taxes.
And every, like, oh, well, that's so much money. How can you reconcile the idea that America is based on the idea that if you work and are if you work
hard are creative and intelligent you can get ahead and then give the headwind of brutal taxation to anybody who dares
to make anything between let's say h 100,000 and $10 million a year. Why is that why is the primary tax burden between 100,000 and 10 million as opposed on everything above 500 million?
Well, it's it's it's active income, which you have to get out of bed to to earn, and passive income, which is just sitting there compounding for you. We
tax the active income at almost twice the rate of the passive income. It's completely upside down. Completely upside down.
Exactly the opposite of what it should be.
Yeah. So, heartbreaking. [clears throat] So, my hope, such as it is, is that I'm I'm I actually It's not even shoden Freud.
It's just straight up enjoyment as I watch mainstream media lose market share right and flounder around and like thankfully they're not creating any
competition for us which is great wide open field and the growth of alternative media is not alternative I think we are
the media now right for people who actually want truth you know we don't have to we won't get everything right I don't have a giant research staff and an editorial staff checking every fact you
get some things wrong now and then so you you know you observe that and you correct it and you move on but people are turning increasingly to places they
can trust the voice at least to do its best to to be accurate and honest, right?
Not to have undisclosed conflicts of interest, right?
And you have audience sensitivity that doesn't exist in the mainstream. You're you are inherently much more rewarded
and punished for your product in a way that the mainstream media is completely insulated from, which makes all the new products much better. Well, and there's
Chapter 13: The Algorithm Wants Your Attention
a subpoint to this, which is that um I I pay good money for a behind-the-scenes YouTube guy who who's like very skilled and knows all the algos and and um uh
he's phenomenal. We are con my my channel's constantly getting mystery.
They don't do strikes anymore. They do these little community violations that sort of like operate subrosa, but they ding your channel. And I'm getting them
all the time, Dylan. particularly when I point out that government inflation statistics are bogus or I uh they're very sensitive to me banging on the Federal Reserve or I mention any of the
CO stuff like there's still sensitivities there but they're working hard to keep us all apart. So this is new to me. I'm really cuz I and and I've
heard people like you I've heard lots of people that are more established in the new media universe over the past 5 years like yourself and others say well listen
you know describe exactly what you're describing. And I'm thinking to myself, I'm like, is I'm like, maybe that's an excuse. These guys like how can this is this really what's I I I don't know,
right? I'm not I'm not participating in it. I'm hearing it. I'm like, oh, maybe, you know, how could it really is it really like that? And so it's only just in the past month. And so I have sort of I have only small data fields, right?
Like I have maybe, you know, whatever 75,000 people on Twitter. That's a my little data field. And I have a big Facebook page. And then I have these other smaller accounts, you know? I have a YouTube page that I don't really use.
It has a few thousand subscribers, but I've just been posting little short like clips from my discussion with you or clips from other discussions.
When I post clips that talk about I I won't I won't talk about what they
talk about. When I post clips that talk about how the algorithm itself is engineered to monitor your thumb
speed and your pupil focus to optimize your time on the screen with dopamine
triggers, which is what's happening, no views. Yep.
Like none. Like 20 like something idiotically low.
And then the day before and the day after is in the thousands on some other topic, the stock market this or the bond market like whatever the you know some
other topic and I marvel at that because and like you talk about your thing where if I talk about COVID or if you talk about whatever so you're telling me that
the I'm not to pick on YouTube but it's sort of the obvious one but all these companies that they're act that they
have robots reading the words of everything that gets uploaded and then either emphasize so like if So like they're look like I mean I'm almost
interested to see if like I do a series on how the algorithm is optimized to capture your brain and your brain chemistry and hold you on your screen as
long as possible because basically this amount of screen time is the limiting factor on revenue for big tech.
Well that that's part of it right. Um so a you know but then but then those videos get no audience.
Yeah. So so they're trying to revenue optimize. They have that as one pressure, but then they have all their narrative controls. So, so pharma has an influence and Rathon has an influence
and maybe the government has an influence, right? Or whatever. And so they have to balance confirmed and how much of this is conspiracy theory? Like when you say pharma has like do you know that or you do you believe that?
Um so I'll tell you what what we're going to do and this is going to be um outside of this this podcast. Uh okay, I'll get you on the on the phone next time we talk with our guy and he'll tell you the data. We're we're data junkies.
We'll get the data. But here's my anecdote. My anecdote is the first time I got together with Brett Weinstein, we're like, "Hey, we're really sympatico. We got a lot of overlap." And
so we both pulled our audiences and it he had like we talk about a lot of similar things. His audience reports
never being served my videos and vice versa. Like how is that possible? You would say, "Wow, normal a normal filter would say of
course you should show Chris to Brett and Brett to like it's good for everybody." But that's not what's happen. But so how do you interpret that? Well, it's just because the I I
think it's it's the job of the narrative keepers is to keep us all fractionated and separated in part so that we feel small and not powerful and I don't
understand we don't how come we don't have any traction watching.
Yeah. Divide and conquer. It's the oldest thing. I mean, it'd be kind of weird if like if if like I showed like I was really into NASCAR, but they never
served me any drag racing videos to see if I had any crossover interest. Like like wait, it's all cars, you know? So people in the world of inference where the
entire thing is based on I mean nonlinear inference is the is the basis of the algorithm. So linear inference is the lowhanging fruit.
Yep. I I mean I can make this very very personal. So I I probably search out I listen to all of Tucker's interviews.
All of them. And I usually [clears throat] listen on Spotify, but when I go over to YouTube, I start typing in the search bar and I have to type his whole name because it's never
served to me, right? never shows up in my tray that says, "Hey, since you've keep searching for Tucker, maybe you should watch more of him here, right?"
Um, that's not a very good algorithm. Or you have to begin to postulate that there's some other reason for that.
And the reason is keep us apart, buddy.
That's that's the whole game, right?
Well, all that's why I'm so happy to have found you and and I'm the reason I came back after 15 years is I'm super duper super worried. I mean, I think
Chapter 14: Building A World Worth Inheriting
we've got a big problem and I believe the only way out is to organize outside of the the castle as it were um for a
massive anti-corruption, antirust and prosperity agenda that doesn't get lost in any of the other issues. Don't care.
I agree. And again, to to war game this a little bit, this can't be about what we're against. Soon as you fight against stuff, you're you're you're relegated to
second tier always because you're always fighting against something. And then when that goes away, who are you? So what are we fighting for? My tagline, my motto for my company is I want to we're
creating a world worth inheriting. I want fish in the rivers. I want kids to have an opportunity. I I want to feel proud that that the world is in better
shape upon my passing than it was when when I when I was granted it, right?
That's it. That's the whole deal. So So I think as well we can't it can't be a tactic, right? It has to be about the
moral position. So you mentioned healthcare. Obama comes out and says, "Oh, we have to control rising health care costs." Dude, that's a COO kind of
a statement. A CEO statement would be Americans deserve to be healthy. Let's make that happen. Okay, now we've got
the moral position. Fight against that all you want, but both sides are going to find it hard to bring machine guns out against that statement, right? No, I want people to be sicker. you know, like
you've put him on the defensive, but you have to be aware that that's actually the game is to make people healthier, which he that should have been his game, but that wasn't his game. His game was
to help enrich the people who get richer off of us being sick, and that was the game. So, I think we can I think we can
best them because they're the they in the story, they don't have any morality or truth on their side. They've got self-interest, narcissistic greed, um
really gross uh corruption practices, and and I don't even I'm not sure if they hate us or if it's worse than that.
They're completely indifferent. Like I might be to a hill of ants on my in my yard, you know?
Yeah. If anything, I think we're product. We're we're we are to be harvested for fees and attention. Yeah.
So, good news. I think people are getting tired of that. And I can feel it bubbling up and it's coming in the younger generations and which is typically where these things start,
right? And um and and so my hope is that we can organize and really get this going because I want a peaceful revolution, right? I just want, you
know, if I could snap my fingers, we just start holding people accountable who really need to be held to account, right? And we come back to America
first. we stop all this adventurism and blowing up people all over the world and instant $58 billion to Rathon, which
happened 3 weeks ago, cuz we need more of these failed Pack 3 interceptor missiles. But oh, what are we going to do about the farmers who can't even afford diesel to get the crops out of the field? So tricky. Where would that
money even come from? Yeah, we're going to invert all of that if we can.
And I think just to put a button on this because I know we're going a little long, I really admire the way that you position yourself in the simplest way, which is peak prosperity.
That's it. That's it.
Prosperity, everybody. There's a universal desire. And And what is prosperity? Prosperity is not health care and health insurance. Prosperity is
health. Right. I won't I won't go down the whole list, but I think that prosperity is the focal point of the advocacy. Um, in a way that then is not
all the layers of the depths of how we get there, but understanding that for sure a corrupt system and a monopoly
system is a barrier to prosperity. and reforming that is the gate that opens up the possibility of the discussions that we all want to have.
Indeed. Very well said. We're going to leave it there. I'm sure we're going to have more conversations in the future, but until then, Dylan, where can people follow you and find your work?
I'm writing every day on Substack. Dylanigan.substack.com.
That's really I'm at sort of I'm playing, you know, level one here in this game, which is to just write every
day. Uh I am not I do a little video goofing around but I I'm I'm really focused on uh starting at the beginning.
I haven't written every day since I was 25 years old and so I'm writing every day and then watching people like yourself in learning with obviously the
ambition over the next year to expand into a a broader portfolio of content in a way that is the most collaborative and constructive uh with the world that
exists. But step one for me is to write every day and I'd love for people to follow me over there. It's free. Uh dillanradigan.substack.com.
substack.com. I do sell I do share uh personal stories from all those years you talked about inside of all those
rooms with all the power and money that I traveled in uh in a way that I think I can tell stories that no one else can and I and I I have found very positive
feedback so far and I have no plans of stopping.
Excellent. Well, they're they're really excellent articles. I would advise everybody. It's free. um sign up for it because Dylan's uh sharing his his wisdom and his insights and and does it
in a very compelling uh connective sort of a way and in a world where you get a lot of AI slop, you're going to want to
subscribe to that. So Dylan, thank you so much for your time today and um let's let's stay in touch. Anything I can do to help, let me know because I'm here [music] to help.
Thank you, Chris. Yeah, thank you very much. And I and here's to peak prosperity. Thank you.
