an overview of where exactly we are. Um, Chris,  thanks so much for doing this. I I got a little  
uh excited there, and I wonder if you think I  overstated the case. You have much more knowledge   on the subject than I ever will. Well, Tucker,  thanks so much for the opportunity to come here  
and um yeah, this is my passion. It's my mission  because if anything, you understated it. Um energy  
is life. Energy is our economy. The path we're  on is headed for complete disaster at this point  
in time. And the people who are driving us there,  as you hinted at, u not my first rodeo. I've seen   these people in operation, what they did to Libya,  what they done to the Middle East generally. Um  
they don't do consequences. And unfortunately,  this is reality we're talking about. And you've   been talking about the markets and there's  these narratives that they push and if they can  
just pretend for a little bit longer, it'll all  sort of sort itself out. But this is different.  
These are molecules. This is physics. This is  [laughter] very simple stuff. Exactly. Exactly.  
It But it's all, you know, physical reality is so  unfashionable. It's Well, it's so unfashionable.   you got transgenderism, but it's I I think since  the invention of the internet, people just imagine  
that things happen. Electricity is created, dams  are built, you know, the world just sort of moves,  
supply chains organically organize themselves or  whatever. Like they have no sense of how things   actually work. So you do what does this mean  for the life of Americans and Europeans? Well,  
it unfortunately it means the same thing. It kind  of always means they're going to have these people   who are going to accidentally wreck some stuff.  Uh, and energy costs will go through the roof. And  
then it's going to be the poor people, the poor  countries are going to, you know, have the worst   run of that as they start out. But we're looking  at something here that could very easily upend our  
economy in a big big way. So you mentioned in your  intro there's a sort of straight line relationship   between how much energy an economy uses and  how big it ends up being. You know, it's like  
a straight line on this chart. Yes. And that's  a really powerful chart because we've all grown   up in an age of amazing energy abundance. I'm  absolutely thrilled with it. I'm a conservative.  
I would love for us to keep this prosperity we  have. But I fear that the people who are making   decisions, they they've lost that grounding. They  don't understand that. I don't know. They're like  
three generations from anybody who had dirt under  their fingernails, right? It's been too long. So   once we get grounded back in that though, here's  a simple thing. The world was consuming just oil,  
just crude oil. That's the tasty stuff. We  turn that into jet fuel, diesel, kerosene,   um, and de gasoline. And so that we were burning  about h 80 consuming, burning 86 million barrels a  
day before the war started. And now we're missing  for sure about 12. That's just missing missing  
because they did some workarounds here and there.  Well, the question is, when was the last time the   world globe was burning 12 million barrels a day  less? That brings us to 74. So we go on our little  
chart and we look back, we find out that number is  2011. The world was burning 74 million barrels a  
day. Problem. The world's economy was 36% smaller  back then. And so this is what I work really hard  
at is because I I do what I call put on my energy  goggles. And it means when I go out, I don't just  
see a a a maddening, infuriating traffic jam.  I just see energy. I see people burning oil. I  
gasoline. I see cars that took oil and diesel to  manufacture them. I I see jets flying. I I see   bridges that need to be repaired. And all of this  is just energy, right? And it just sort of makes  
sense, right? So the economy requires people to do  things like we all have to do some work. Even if   we have a service job, we're still doing work.  Well, work requires energy. And so therefore,  
the economy requires energy. We can just put those  pieces together. And so when you have less energy  
flowing through an economy, by definition, it  starts to skinny down. It gets simpler. Um,  
which is a euphemism for it craters. And  so we are actually risking the cratering   of the world economy. Trump saying, "Oh, we're  insulated. I know we broke that stuff over there,  
but we'll be fine over here." I just, how's that  going to play in, you know, diplomatic circles as   it goes on? I mean, we've we're about to unleash  we, the United States, with Israel. We're about  
to unleash the worst catastrophe on economies, on  financial markets, and potentially because of the  
impact on fertilizers and other stuff, maybe even  food, maybe even famines, things like that. this   is what's at risk. And I wish we were having  serious conversations, not Heg Seth jokingly  
saying we don't even need a straight. It's It's  so cartoonish. I I I don't even know how to form  
words sometimes. So, let let's just um assess  specifically what that would mean for the US.  
Like you often hear the president, but not just  the president, politicians going back at least  
10 years say this country is energy independent.  it's a net exporter of oil. So if the country is  
a net exporter of oil, what is is that true? I  don't think it is true, but I'll defer to you.   And what does that mean? Does it mean we can set  the price of oil? Like why is that relevant? Will  
you explain the system for people who might be  confused? Yeah, this this detail is important.   So um when I was growing up, uh petroleum and oil  were synonyms. You could use them interchangeably  
and nobody would get confused. And this like  remember under co suddenly the CDC lost the   threat on what's her immunity or a vaccine. They  started changing definitions. So sometime about  
10 12 years ago the uh our DOE energy information  administration decided you know what we're just  
going to change the definition here a little bit.  We're going to call petroleum anything that comes   out of the ground that you can set on fire.  Right. Um so oil is the thing we really care  
about now because we're doing all this shale oil  drilling very exciting and doing all this shale   gas extraction. They have a lot of this stuff  called natural gas liquids. Okay, that's propane  
works great in my grill. I love it. Butane, it's  good in a lighter. Um, ethane turns into plastics,   all that. But they lumped all that together  and said, "Oh, when you put all of this stuff  
in one pile on a net basis, we're an exporter."  Problem. These aren't fungeible. You don't decide  
one day I'm going to put gasoline in my car or  maybe I'll put butane in my car, right? They're   just not They don't have very different purposes.  Those natural gas liquids, they're industrial. We  
use them. They're fantastic. They're industrial.  We have way too many of them. We export a ton of   them because we can't use them. Fine. We're still  a net importer of crude oil. And even more to the  
point, we get all this stuff out of the shale  basins, right? You got the Perian, you know,   you got places like that, the Bakan in North  Dakota. So that stuff that comes out is really  
light and it's really sweet and it doesn't go into  our refineries. So we package that up in ships and   we send mo a good chunk of that away. and then we  import heavier stuff from Canada, from Venezuela,  
but also the world. And so to your point, this  idea that we'll just insulate ourselves from the   world is untrue. Whatever we're paying for jet  fuel here has a big relationship to what they're  
paying for jet fuel in Europe because it's open to  the highest bidder. And if it's worth it to put it   on a ship and sell it to Europe, that's exactly  what's going to happen. Unless we do something  
really catastrophic, which is, you know, close  down our borders to exports. That would be a bad   idea for a country with a hundred billion dollars  last month trade deficit because we're like, nah,  
we're going to keep all our good stuff. We're  going to send you our our treasuries. You know,   we're good. You know, it's going to be a terrible  idea. What would happen if we did that? I mean,  
there at some point there will be pressure because  the public has been told for a generation that we  
have an abundance of petroleum. As you said, the  definition is not what they thought it was, but  
you know, we're an exporter. So people are going  to say, "Well, it's $8 for a gallon of unled. What  
why are we selling this abroad? Why can't we  just keep it here?" So if politicians decided,  
"Okay, we're going to do that. We're going to stop  petroleum exports." What would that mean? Well,  
um, first off, you'd have a heck of a legal  battle on your hands, um, because that would sort   of break the fundamental contract that we have  with, uh, how business operates. Second, we have  
legitimate contracts for LNG, for other petroleum  products, things like that that would have to get   broken. But more to the point, it would isolate  us really badly in a time when um we need this  
at least the appearance if not the reality of free  trade happening where things go freely across our   borders. to take one portion of that and shut it  down. Um I think it would be as damaging as when  
in uh was it February 2022 when the United States  Treasury under Biden decided to freeze Russia's  
sovereign assets reserves. They're neither  sovereign nor reserves under that scenario. Um   and that kicked off a whole lot of things where  people started walking away from the dollar. We  
started to see the treasuries weren't getting bid,  gold started to spike. There are real consequences   to actions like that. Um, and so I just think that  would be it would be very destabilizing would be  
the kindest term I could put here. So that's  not likely to happen. You think? I hope not.  
Home ownership has always been at the center  of the American dream. It is an actual asset,   a place people work their entire lives to  build, a place of stability and security and  
real value. Right now though, too many homeowners  are stuck swiping credit cards to cover groceries.  
There's basically a survival tax of 20% interest  or more. [music] So why keep handing your money   to the banks when you could keep it for your  family? Interest is what kills you. Our friends  
at American Financing have a better way. They're  helping homeowners use their hard-earned equity   and they're supporting Americans looking to  fulfill the dream of [music] owning a home with  
mortgage rates currently in the fives. American  Financing saves its customers an average of $800  
a month. That's about 10 grand a year. It's  not just a loan. It's a true financial reset.  
We recommend American Financing. They're called  America's Home for Home Loans for a reason. So,  
get out of credit card debt. I mean, it is  just crazy to borrow money. No judgment,   but it doesn't make any sense to borrow money  at that rate. If you want out, call 8006855696.
800685-5696 or visit americanfinancing.net/tucker.
Chapter 10: Economic consequences and future outlook
How high could gas get? You know, I get asked this  a lot. So, um there's a little thought experiment.  
So, imagine like, you know, I've got a I've got  a Nissan Pathfinder. It's totally dry. I put a   gallon of gas in there and then I drive it until  it runs out and then I have to turn around and  
push it home. Question, how much is that worth?  Cuz I'm about 22 miles away from home. Probably  
take me, I don't know, 3 weeks to do that. So,  people will pay a lot for gasoline. People will  
pay a lot for diesel. it could easily get to $3  $400 a barrel and people who are riding little  
scooters, you know, all over Bangkok. They're  still going to be paying that because they're   using it so efficiently in their in their markets,  but it's worth every penny of that. I have a farm,  
I have a tractor, you know, hay bailing, I would  really rather not go back to hand hay bailing.   I would pay a lot personally for a gallon. So,  the question is what's it worth? It's severely  
underpriced at this point in time in terms of its  actual worth. That's okay. We've had a lot of it.   got a little lazy with the whole thing, but um  you know, could we would people pay 200 easy  
a barrel? 300 easy, 400? Yes, absolutely. What  would that mean for gasoline and diesel prices?  
Like how would that be reflected at the pump, the  fabled pump? The pump. Well, you know, this is   interesting because we have the the quoted price  of oil, the futures price, right? 85 rightish now  
for WTI, maybe 95 for Brent. Um but on the other  end of that, I don't put oil in my car. I put  
gasoline in my car. So the question is after it  goes to the refiner, how much are those products   worth right now? Okay, so if you in Roderdam  this morning wanted to buy a barrel of jet fuel,  
you had to pay $158. If you want to buy a barrel  of diesel, same market, about $148. So that's  
what it's actually selling for. Well, what's the  point of having a Brent market, WTI, West Texas?  
What what's the point of those numbers if they  don't correspond to reality? It's a narrative  
control. It It's really I think that's what we're  down to at this point in time. So, I've been   watching markets for a long time. Um and I used to  trade futures and uh my specialty was gold, also  
silver, and I didn't dabble in oil all that much,  but they all operate kind of the same. And so the   futures market were this awesome invention that uh  allows speculators to really be very dominant in  
setting the price for things. Not discovering the  price. I'm using this terminology careful. They   set the prices for things. So right now on a daily  basis in the oil market, you're a producer. I'm a  
consumer. You're a oil company. I'm a refinery.  Right? That would be the actual price discovery  
mechanism. We come to some agreement. Um that  would be a onetoone relationship. However, on top   of that, we've allowed because our regulators fell  asleep at the wheel, we've allowed the speculators  
in that story to become 50 times larger on a  signal basis than the actual deal that happens on  
at the bottom. So, when you have a 50 to1 margin,  it's the paper that's setting the price up there   right now. And uh we've watched this for years,  1:30 in the morning, and this is happening with  
oil now constantly. 1:30, 2:00 in the morning when  there's almost no trading happening, everybody's   asleep, and all of a sudden, somebody will come  in, and I've seen this several times now, and  
suddenly sell a million and a half barrels of oil  in a single one minute window, and it just crushes   the price. And they do this over and over again.  And then, of course, you have all these algos,  
and they're mostly momentum. A lot of them  are momentum algos. And so, they're like,   "Oh, look, prices are falling." So, they pile  on and uh you get the whole sort of herd moving  
in a direction. And and it's just completely  fake. It's it's been this way for a while.   And I think it's because I mean you've probably  seen the same clips, right? Trump comes out,  
he's like, "Oh, people told me oil was going to  be 300, it's only 70 and the stock market's up."   Those are really important narrative moments for  him to be able to say, "Look, I did this thing  
and markets approve of it. If they didn't, stocks  wouldn't be so high and oil wouldn't be so low,   right?" I think that's the point of this stuff.  It's political narrative shaping right now. So,  
it's lying because the price of something is  the point at which the transaction occurs.   What's it worth? What will you pay for it? I  mean, that that's that's what a market I mean,  
correct me. I'm not the economist here. You are,  but like, right. So, if if I say the price of  
something is $5, but nobody would buy it for $5.  It's not worth $5. This is so nuts. It's just not  
real at all. It's a lie. So, why isn't there an  effort among policy makers or even the media to  
discover and publicize the price of oil? the price  of oil is what people are buying it for. I you  
it's a big big mystery. So here here's the thing  you mentioned the most important thing. There's   like if you got take economics there's one chart  they call it the PQ chart price supply demand  
right there's a curve you can point to it. That's  how it's supposed to work. Um right now we're  
holding the price lower than actual supplies,  right? So what's happening is demand is too high  
and so we're burning through our stock piles right  now. And if you want to see something alarming,   just look at the actual amount of uh crude oil  we have stored in the United States. That would  
be the SPR plus commercial inventories. Or we  could look at how much diesel do we have in   tanks kicking around. Hey, or how much gasoline  do we have in tanks? And all of these are just  
powering low. Now, why is that? Cuz the price is  too low. The only way you can get price, you know,   supply and demand matched again is you have to  use prices. So prices rise enough, people decide,  
I'm not going to drive my car today. We'll take  a lesser vacation. Whatever. That's how this   thing sorts itself out. Alternatively, and I'm  really worried about this in a postcoavid CISA  
telling us who's essential and not environment,  that we're just going to run this down, Tucker,   until we get to scary minimums. And then we're  going to have government rationing attempts.  
They're going to try and decide who gets it.  You're not important. You are. Imagine that   amongst California Democrats. That'll be amazing.  Um, but I think this is where this is going is  
we're actually just going to sail into into  absolute minimum and then the crisis comes out.  
And I'm starting to wonder if that hasn't been  the point all along. Flesh that out. So the point  
of this destroying global energy supplies and  capacity, including refining the point of that,  
I mean, clearly there's a point. The United  States is fighting a war against Russia aimed   at Russia's energy sector and the United States is  doing that. The Trump administration is fighting  
a war against Russia against Russia's energy  sector and knowing what it's doing and then  
it started this war knowing what would happen  that the LG ports in Qatar would be hit etc etc  
etc. So like you think the US government  the Trump administration wants rationing
may maybe that I'm not sure if that's the ultimate  end goal but so February 28th we conduct this  
you know decapitation strike right kill Iran's  version of the pope and that somehow is going  
to work out right so we do that on the 2nd of  March is when Ukraine with some help obviously  
started really dialing in on Russian refineries  and oil depots And this is very poorly reported   I feel in our country, but you know it's all  over Twitter and other places. But you can see  
and they were very effective. They were blowing  up all kinds of refineries and big black smoky   things. They had even like struck right downtown  in in Moscow and took out their main refinery. And  
as of 3 days ago, every single major refinery in  Russia had been attacked at least once. None had  
been missed. And this is very effective. And some  of them were 1500 miles all the way inland. And   that's not something Ukraine could do all on its  own because Russia has mobile air defense units  
and so you have to thread all these needles to get  your little buzzy drones all the way over there.   But they, you know, they're getting that targeting  information. And so all that's going on and then  
also poorly reported probably the single greatest  loss of merchant marine vessels in the Sea of Azov  
in the Black Sea because of drone attacks by  Ukraine on Russian shipping. Any kind of ships,   fairies, little merchant barges, you know,  oil tankers, whatever. if it's a ship,  
it's it's getting hit. And um and then of late,  we've really stepped it up because uh Russia has  
the their version of Amazon's called Wildberries,  and they have these huge distribution warehouses,   and they have six massive distribution warehouses.  Oops. Now they have four cuz four of them have  
been completely attacked. This is an economic  attack. And of course, the scary part with   this is that Russia just I don't know what was a  few months ago, they they um they revamped their  
nuclear doctrine to say, you know, it used to be  a uh we would only respond if attacked with nukes,  
but we're widening that to say we can use them  if we're facing an existential threat. And the  
thing that drives me nuts is as we're poking the  bear, nobody's bothered to come out and explain   to me what's the upside here and what do we get  out of this? What's the point of why are we do  
why is the Trump administration doing this?  They told us they were going to end the war.   They told me they were going to end the war. And  CIA is providing and NSA are providing targeting  
to warehouses and refineries. Like I don't like  what is the what is the point? I don't know the  
answer. Do you know? It seems to be to provoke a  reaction. I'm just having, you know, I just got to   speculate like anybody. But I know it's dangerous.  I know that if those things were happening to us,  
we would respond pretty vigorously, muscularly,  [clears throat] I bet. So it feel that feels  
dangerous. But it's just the timing of it that a  the straight gets closed down straight over moose.   B Russia really starts to get dialed up now. C  we've pushed it all the way to the point that  
the the Babal men straight there on the Red Sea  is now closed. And so you said it before I don't   I no longer trust a thing anybody says. What are  they doing? So they've said, "Oh, we've tried to  
get this memorandum of understanding which is an  understanding about how you're going to get to an   understanding. It's not even a thing." Uh but  you know, and we couldn't even abide by that,  
right? And so what are we doing? Everything  we've been doing is to further inflame this   war. Get caught in a little bit deeper.  Trump has been talking about, you know,  
escalating constantly at this point in time.  Oh, if you strike a ship, we'll blow up a plant,  
right? Um and and uh so the actions are they're  trying to keep it closed. And here's the part that  
I'm worried about is I don't think they I think  they know not what they do. I don't think they  
understand the relationship between how an economy  is undergurtded by energy. I think they just think  
it's all intangible. It's all it's all narratives,  right? I I truly feel like there's people who live   in a world of reality. Oh, yes. And then there  are these abstractionists and they live in an  
abstract world. Yeah. Yeah. And so what happens if  we push down that abstract world? Well, you know,  
as Anne Ran said, you can ignore reality,  but you can't ignore the consequences of   ignoring reality. And You know, I almost have  to have a little chuckle because it's really  
dark. Like like what they're doing, if I could  communicate to people clearly, is they are risking  
everything. Everything that we hold dear about  our way of life, about the ease of our lives,  
about the jobs we do, um where the future's going,  what we tell our children. It's and we're not  
having really any serious conversations outside  of say this podcast and others like it. So,   is the world getting more stable or less stable?  That's a rhetorical question. We're not in charge  
Chapter 11: Protecting personal wealth
of the world, [music] unfortunately. But you are  in charge of, in fact, responsible for your own  
family and your savings. So, the dollar has lost  nearly a third of its purchasing power since 2020.  
That's crazy. The dollar has lost nearly a third  of its purchasing power [music] in 6 years. You  
know what hasn't? Gold. Gold has been a trusted  store of value for thousands of years. And that's   one reason you should think about gold right  now. It's about 25% below its high from earlier  
this year, which is amazing. Some of the world's  biggest financial institutions are making the move  
because gold relative to its power and endurance  as a medium of [music] exchange is pretty cheap  
right now. Central banks are reducing their  reliance on treasuries and increasing their   holdings of, yes, gold. They're not alone.  Individual investors are doing the same. Ray  
Dallio, founder of the world's largest hedge fund  and a friend of ours, recommends holding up to 15%  
of your portfolio in gold. We've long believed in  gold. We've been vindicated. We started Battalion  
Metals to give Americans an honest, fairriced way  to buy metals, gold and silver, because a lot of  
these companies are scams. Ours is not. You know,  we have like three points over spot. We'll ship  
it to your house. battalion metals.com/tucker is  the place to go to learn more about buying metals,  
gold and silver, precious metals, IAS, secure  storage, all of it. battalion metals.com/dtucker.
I don't think there are any. I I don't I don't  think there are any. And people throw this stuff   out unchallenged. No, actually, we're going to  We have Venezuelan oil now, so we have more than  
enough oil. And by the way, if you wouldn't mind  explaining why that probably isn't true. What does  
that mean when they tell us that we now have all  of Venezuela's oil, so we don't need oil from the   Persian Gulf? Yeah. So oil is uh oil's not saying  like water. Water is kind of water, maybe salt  
water and fresh water. So we understand those  are different. Well, oil has like 900 different   flavors, right? Yes. And the Venezuela has a lot  of oil, but it's you use the little quotation  
marks in the air. Oil. Uh, and the reason for  that is that um they have two fields. They have   the Mary field which we're currently drawing from.  It's nice. It's very heavy. It's sour, which means  
it has sulfur in it. Actually, sulfur sounds  bad because we call it sour, but it's actually   tasty in the sense that we use it for all kinds of  things, right? So, that's actually high value oil.  
The rest of it is in this stuff called the orinco  belt. It's a big belt, but it's not oil. Like,   you couldn't like the easiest way to get out of  the ground is with a spatula, right? Uh, it just  
doesn't flow. It's like it's really tar. It's  like a It's basically imagine a really hot road  
on this August day. Yep. Yeah. It's pretty much  asphalt and it's packed with asphaltines component  
of that. So, uh it's hideously expensive to get  that stuff out of the ground. You have to do all   kinds of very fun things. You have to either use  steam, which means you have to create steam. So,  
you have to build a power plant on site, inject  it down there, or you have to put a dilluent down,   some kind of solvent that you just inject in the  ground and suck it back out again. It's tricky.  
Um, so remember, uh, Trump goes down there and  he brings in all the Exxon and all these people,   gets mad at them because he said, "Go down there  and get that oil, boys." And they said, "It's it's  
uninvestable." Cuz there is probably 150 billion  that would have to be invested down there. And  
um, defending an oil infrastructure in Iraq is  relatively easy because it's all flat desert. Yes.  
Um, defending oil infrastructure in the jungle is  a whole different beast if things go south on you.   So they said you can't do that unless you give us  security guarantees and that's that wait that's  
awkward. How do we do that? So they couldn't come  to any agreement and Trump just got mad at Exxon.   Um but it's not trivial and it's very expensive  and if we started today with complete security  
guarantees and also um contract guarantees in  a socialist regime they took Maduro out but  
the whole rest of the structure remained intact.  So I'm not real clear what happened there. Um it   it would still take 5 to 10 years to get that  flowing. Um, and we don't have 5 to 10 years.  
We've got like two or three more months here.  Would if it was flowing at full force, would it  
compensate for the 19 million missing barrels of  oil a day through the straight? Hard to imagine.  
Here's closest comparable is um the the Batum  in the tar sands. Canada likes they've rebranded  
it oil sands. But all that beautiful stuff up in  Alberta, a very capital intensive. Over, you know,  
the past 15 years, they've managed to bring that  up to a very respectable 4.67 million barrels a   day of flow. Um, but it took tens if not hundreds  of billions of capital. It takes a long time. You  
don't just turn a tap on and it kind of comes  out. You have to each chunk of the field has to  
have pipes put in it and infrastructure and steam  and all kinds of stuff. It's just listen I I if  
that's comparable I would say if you could be as  stable as Canada I would imagine in the next 15   years you could probably get that up to four or  5 million barrels a day if they're comparable and  
it's listen I'm simplifying a lot I have some  oil people calling me up and yelling at me but  
just to keep it sort of roughly comparable or 5  million barrels a day under bestase circumstances  
with political stability security and massive  hundred billion dollar infrastructure investments,  
you could get it to 5 million barrels a day.  We're 20 million barrels a day offline. So  
like there's kind of no way around I don't care  what Doug Bergam or the Secretary of War says.  
There's no way around the reality that like we are  short awful lot of oil in the global markets. So  
what so that I mean that's just like is that  I'm misreading this? That's that's the fact,  
right? Yeah, that's the fact. And and I guess um  again the administration officials I've seen they  
they kind of keep going shrugging and going well  we'll be relatively okay. Um but what that really   what they're really saying is um the person you  know the country that we're going to hit the most  
is the largest importer of oil is China and China  may decide it has to say something about this at  
some point in time. They've been very quiet so  far, pretty suspicious. But I think it was May   13th, Trump goes over, brings over Tim Cook and  all these other Elon Musk CEO types. And it was  
shortly after that that they really dialed  back their imports. So I'm pretty sure there   was a quidd proquo. The quidd was we'll stop  importing for a while. I don't know what the  
proquo was. You know, was it Taiwan? We don't  know. We'll have to figure that out later. Um   but China can't do that forever. They've been,  I think, a little fairly gracious so far. Um,  
but they are starting to to reimport and bring  their imports back up and and they can't have this  
area shut down for the next year. It just they're  gonna they're going to have to intervene in some  
meaningful way, I would imagine, because again,  energy is everything. And they know that they've   got these beautiful 5-year sets of 5-year plans.  And their energy policy actually when I read it,  
I weep because I wish my country had one that  was so comprehensive. Um, it's very thoughtful.   It only brings on alternative energy slowly up to  a certain percentage and they're pursuing nukes  
and alternative nukes and small nukes and thorium  reactors and plank of their energy policy is have  
good relations with the people we get our oil  from. Germany could take a lesson from that book,   right? Um, you know, and uh so they're obviously  dialed in on energy. They know its importance. Um,  
and eventually they're going to have to intervene  here, I think, if we continue to mess this up.  
How long till American consumers are shocked  by what they see because of rising oil energy  
prices? Well, um, we're going to be shocked here.  Uh, I think we both live in New England. Um,  
heating oil is up 84% from this time last year.  Uh, and I I live around people who are going to  
be very hurt by that. And um, it's that's going  to be tough. It's going higher than that. Uh, New  
York Harbor is a place where we have they sell in  five districts. The New York Harbor district for  
diesel just hit its all-time high just last week.  So, we're going to be seeing 550 a gallon diesel  
again here very shortly. Those numbers are just  going to keep going up. Yeah. And keep in mind,  
there's been a organized and concerted effort  to discourage the use of wood stoves for the  
last 25 years. Yeah. Don't have a wood stove. It  pollutes. You know, just heating oil. That That's  
the answer. LP gas. Um Wow. Okay. So, do you think  um gasoline, which is the I think the most common  
retail measure of energy prices, I mean, are you  going to see $6 a gallon gasoline before Labor Day  
or this year, do you think? Yeah, I really do. So,  um I'm tracking these every week. We got another  
raft of numbers. If you can believe them. I'm not  sure what I can believe anymore, Tucker. Honestly,   I don't know. Um you would it be beyond this  administration to fudge the numbers and say we  
have more gasoline in storage than we do? Sure.  uh well within the realm of possible. But if we   can believe the numbers as they are, we see that  all of our actual stocks and inventories are going  
down. Now, this was tragically commutical when  Trump came out and said, "We're going to go after  
the retailers for gouging on gas." It's like, "Ah,  dude, that's not how this market works at all."   That the the 7-Eleven is a price taker. The guy  with the big tanker shows up, tells him what that  
costs, and he's also a price taker. He goes to the  distribution center and they're price takers. And   so the people like there's no one person you can  say is gouging. The refiners sell to the highest  
bidder. The highest bidder has the need to buy at  that price so that they can supply the people who  
are depending on them and that's how it works.  Um so there's no gouging at this point in time,  
but we're going to see a lot higher prices  because again all those inventories are just   screaming downwards. And so there comes a point  where I think we just have kind like how did  
Hemingway go broke? You know slowly then all at  once. I think we're going to slowly people are   going to start waking up that there's a there's  a real crisis here. These are shocking levels  
of inventory and eventually there's mad scramble  and that's the all at once part of this. But you  
know 2022 America imposed sanctions on Russia,  Russian tankers and all that stuff. And so there   was the thought that maybe 3 million barrels a  day might come offline and that was enough to  
send oil from then about 80 to 120 where it stood  for 5 months, right? And then it turned out, oh,   after the news settled in, they're like, ah,  it wasn't such a big deal because Russia ended  
up using shadow tankers and selling it to India.  In India, yeah, exactly. Yeah, no big deal. So,  
actually, there wasn't any real impact to the oil  markets. And here we are now today with inarguably  
not just the largest energy shock ever, but by  literally whole factors. Right? So, we had the oil  
embargo starts in October 1973, runs till March  of 74. And what they did was they they didn't they  
didn't stop selling to the whole world. They said  I don't know why Norway is wrapped up in this,   but they said we're not selling oil to the US or  Norway. I still don't know how Norway got tangled  
up in that. And then what they did was they agreed  as a group of OPEC nations or Arab nations at  
that time that they were going to reduce their  production by 5% per month. So by the end of the  
whole thing, the world was short 9% of its oil.  Right? And that was enough to take oil basically  
from 370 a barrel to 33. was a 10 t 10bagger,  right? And that created a huge shock. Then we  
had the double wave of inflation that happened in  the 70s. Um, and it took Paul Vulkar coming out  
and ramming interest rates to 21%. In order to to  pinch that second hump of inflation, I mean, can  
you imagine what would happen if we had to fight  inflation that way? So, there was a huge learning   from that. And I believe that that the lesson was,  oh, if we can just keep the price of oil down,  
we can minimize the shock. And so, they're doing  that. And the problem is while they're doing that,  
the price is too low. Even though it feels high,  it's still too low to truly match supply and  
demand. And so supplies are just being run down.  And so now we've run through, you know, the IEA  
said, "Go ahead, release 400 million barrels,  all you, you know, G7 countries." And we were   a big chunk of that. We're almost half of that.  Um, we had all this stuff that Iran had stored  
up in tankers that they suddenly released to the  world. We had all the Russian stuff that suddenly   got released. All those tankers. We had all these  tankers that were in motion at the time the war  
started. It took them a month or two to get to  where they were going. So, we had all of that   to sort of work through. Now, that's all gone.  And even if the straight opened up right now,  
you know, we would not get to 21 million barrels  a day again till probably a year from now for   three separate reasons, which you mentioned. One,  there's we don't unknown unknown damage to the  
actual oil fields because they just had to shut  them off and that's that's bad. That's not how you   treat oil wells. So, we'll see when they turn them  back on how much damage happened. Two, they got to  
fix all the stuff that got uh tuned up, right?  So, refineries got hit and loading docks got  
hit and oil platforms and all that. And probably  one of the biggest things is just unbolling the  
um all the tank all the shipping, right? Because  it wasn't just oil tankers coming out. There were  
cargo containers and bulk carriers and all this  stuff. And that whole perfectly choreographed  
just in time symphony of thousands of ships going  hither and yan that all got completely shredded.  
So that all has to sort of be reformulated and  rebuilt. The shipping experts I talked to say   minimum 3 4 months just to sort of unccort that  and figure out where things are. And that's if  
and only if my magic finger snap made things  stable and insurable and you know believably  
so. And and I don't think we're anywhere close  to that. literally nowhere close to that. Now,  
for I I feel like many Americans recall or  have read about the oil shock of 1973, which  
as you just said had downstream consequences that  lasted almost a decade and changed the country,   changed how we manufacture cars, changed the  culture, changed the birth rate. Like it it  
really was a big deal, though was much smaller  than what we're facing now. Very few people   remember why that happened. Do you remember why?  Do you remember why OPEC shut us out in Norway?  
doorway. Um well, you know, there was just uh I  guess what I think Israel was involved. Um yeah,   that's exactly right because we sided with  Israel in the Yam Kapoor war of 1973. That's  
exactly why. So we paid a huge price in 197  I mean not to be pedantic about it, but it's  
just a fact. We paid a huge price in 1973 for our  support for Israel, which was not to our strategic  
benefit. It was for sentimental or other reasons,  maybe darker reasons, but it wasn't like we were  
getting anything out of it. We didn't. We lost.  And once again, 50 years later, it's a replay,  
but 10x. I just I just can't help but notice that.  Yeah. Um, even then though, I feel like there was  
more reality sort of in the system. We live in a  super unreal time right now. I can't believe like   Trump can just say things like, "Oh, we we've  completely beaten them militarily." Well, then  
why can't we stop any of those missiles or drones?  You know, it's just it's [laughter] then why are   we drawing down the SPR if the straight of H for  H for H for H for H for H for H for H for H for H  
formuz doesn't mean anything. It's it's yeah it's  just and and where we're where the journalists I   mean just ask a follow-up question. You know  I did see on with Pete Hegathth Department of  
War. I struggle with that too. Um you know saying  but prices are high lady you ain't seen nothing  
yet. Um we are just getting started on this. This  could get a lot higher. And and here's my concern.  
The destination doesn't bother me. If you said,  "Hey, we have to find out how to live with like,   you know, 13% less energy and we've got 5 years  to sort it out and prices will climb to give us  
that's fine." Um, the destination doesn't bother  me. We'll sort it out. But it's the pace of change  
that gets you, right? And so if we just slam into  this and oil or gasoline suddenly goes from 5 to   15 or whatever it's going to do suddenly, um,  that's where the shock happens. That's where  
the damage happens. That's where the uncontrolled  things happen. And this is why I I research and I   look at neither of these two things independently.  I always look at energy and the economy. And so  
here's what we have to understand. Uh the United  States in 1973 had some debt, not 39 trillion of  
debt, right? With a structural deficit of 2  to 3 trillion per year for the next 10 years,  
right? Just by law. Nothing we can do about that.  It's all baked in the cake. with derivatives  
uh numbering 1 to two quadrillion depending on  how you count these things. Nobody knows what   they are. Don't ask me. But literally nobody  understands how the how things operates. But  
what they do is they provide insurance Tucker  at a moment when um you don't really need it,   you know, but but if things get a little out  of parameter, as they say, like if you know,  
interest rates suddenly do something really crazy  like they did in the long-term capital management.   um they had all these fancy derivatives and all  of a sudden oops, you know, Russian bonds went a  
little further than they thought in the wrong  direction and boom, six billion out the window   and Allen Greenspan had to fix it, you know.  Um if these derivative markets freeze up, what  
we're going to see is the complete freezing of our  financial system and markets. And that'd be very  
bad. Um and you know, sort of my darkhor candidate  for kicking all this off is going to be Japan.  
Their yen is weakening really a lot right now and  they're trying hard to make that not happen. and   also they've lost control of their bonds and the  yields are spiking higher. And that's a very rare  
combination. So you lose control of both the price  of your money and and and your interest rates. Uh  
you know that's um so that could be a situation  where if that really starts to spiral out of   control, they're going to have to do something and  that would mean closing markets, shutting things  
down, you know, and what would that look like?  You know, we'll wake up one day and they'll say,   "Oh, you know, terrible things happened at Nomura  Bank, but don't worry, it's very temporary. Oh,  
actually, Japan's going to have to shut their NIK  down for just a couple days. Actually, hang on.   We're going to have to shut down one of our banks  over here for a little while, and then it'll be  
Wednesday, and they'll be like, "We can't open  it." This is how this is going to sort of play   out at some point. But that's because we allowed,  you know, we had the great financial crisis, and  
they're like, "Oh, that was a terrible idea. We  had all these collateralized debt obligations and,   you know, all that stuff. We shouldn't have done  that." So, learned our lesson. Today, derivatives  
exactly like that are still saturated through  the market. They're twice as large as they were   back then. No lessons learned, except they did  write some laws that if the banks get in trouble,  
they're going to take your bank account uh to help  make them whole again. They did they did write   some laws. So, they got that done. It's it's of  course theft at scale. Let me just ask though. I  
mean, Japan is the biggest or one of the biggest  holders of US treasuries. So, what effect does  
that have on treasuries? Well, it has a lot. So,  Japan is going to have to sell those treasuries  
just to begin defending its currency. Um, because  they're going to need to that that would be part   one. But part two is Japan imports 100% of its  hydrocarbons. It has no domestic reserves. So,  
as the price of oil goes up and oil products  goes up, they're going to have to buy those at   higher and higher and higher yen costs. So, so the  poor people of Japan are getting hit with a double  
whammy, right? First, their yen is weakening.  that imports inflation. Second, when they have   to buy oil that's also going up in price, it's  with a weaker currency. So, they're going to be  
feeling it um sort of at a 2x rate of speed and  that creates social unrest uh political problems.  
It's it's going to create a lot of pressure to do  something. Um and unfortunately, there's not a lot  
that can be done for as long as the straight of  her moves remains closed. I predict a bailout by  
China thereby neutralizing the Japan problem which  is one of China's biggest problems and there you  
know obviously historically um Japan occupied a  huge part of China for a long time and Chinese   haven't forgotten it and they're concerned about  Japan they don't want American troops in Japan  
they don't want Japan to have a nuclear weapon  and a desperate Japan is good for China that's  
just my guess to me let me ask you about um and I  hate I don't want to get too dark with this, but  
like the hope of the US economy at this point. The  entire future of the state of California is all  
predicated on the success of AI. And AI doesn't  famously produce anything. It doesn't, you know,  
you don't make anything with AI. You really just  consume energy. And AI, like Bitcoin mining,   is just a function of of energy. Like what's the  price of energy? How in the world are you going to  
transform our economy from a manufacturing economy  to an AI cryptocurrency economy with energy prices  
like this? How does that work? This is the one of  these big sour notes. I can't figure this one out,  
Tucker. Um so, [snorts] but I I just wrote a huge  report on AI. Um my most recent one, I call it the  
Renaissance report, which is overselling myself.  I just have unmanaged adult ADHD. Um this is Yeah.  
But AI itself is very concerning because we've  thrown trillions of dollars of capex at this. So  
it's kind of all in. We have to beat China, right?  Okay, that's the story. Um, but if we were really   serious about this, let's say we've got some idea  that what we're going to do is we're going to get  
God in a box, right? And we have to get we have to  get God in a box first and then we'll be able to   run this whole thing. But the implicit assumption  baked in there is we're going to have these data  
centers and they're now permanent part of our  architecture going forward. All right. They take   a lot of energy, right? I call them toasters that  don't make toast. You know, they make cat videos,  
but they just they just basically just  turn natural gas into waste heat. You know,  
that's what they do. Um, and so you would think if  you had a comprehensive, beautiful 5-year plan of  
energy strategy, somebody would be going, "Where's  the energy for that coming from?" Well, now wander  
with me over to the world where actually our own  energy information agency administration, the EIA  
says we're kind of at peak oil right now. The the  shale beds have all sort of they've done what they   can. They don't go to tomorrow, you know, zero by  Tuesday, but there's we're not going to be putting  
more on going forward. And similarly, natural gas,  there's a lot there, but it's kind of, wouldn't,   you know, it's kind of bumping along and okay, so  you would think somebody would be saying, look,  
we need these boxes permanently. This going to  be part of our control grid. It's how we conduct   business. It's going to be woven into everything.  We're all going to have digital IDs and and if the  
if this AI system goes down, wow, we're really  screwed. We won't know how to get people on   flights. We won't know how to distribute, you  know, lorries to Walmart. Everything breaks,  
right? So, you'd think, wow, we should  have a comprehensive plan. Well, first,   we we're not going to have natural gas forever.  It all too, like all good things, runs out. So,  
you we would be doing something smart. We would  be, you would know that they were serious about   this if they were slapping in small modular nukes  and and nuclear plants all over the place because  
that's the answer for that. Nukes make beautiful  electricity, a big fan of them, but we're not   doing that, right? Not at scale. And we haven't  even figured out where we're going to get the  
uranium from to continue operating our own. So,  it's it's almost it's this very unserious thing,   Tucker, which I can't figure out. It feels like  they don't care about the future. They just  
there's some goal line they're trying to just like  furiously cross over with the with the football. I  
don't I feel that way too. I felt that way since  really since Trump's inauguration and I then I  
realized the goal line was the Iran regime change  effort. Like that's everything in retrospect  
about the staffing of the administration,  the transition, all of it was designed to   make February 28th possible. [snorts] But what I  haven't figured out is what the point of that was.
Do you have the thought? I I wrestle with this  all the time. You know, it's Yeah. What do you  
do? You pick. It's either really rank incompetence  or it's malevolence. But malevolence on a scale  
that doesn't have a lot of precedent in history.  I mean that we know of. I mean a lot of history   most of history is unrecorded but to the extent  that we know what previous empires did and why  
like nothing like this has ever happened at this  scale including in the 20th century where you  
clearly the US government or elements within the  US government are trying to destroy global energy  
markets which as you said at the very outset is  one to one correlation to the strength of the  
economy GDP. like why would you why would you wipe  out civilization? Why are you trying to do that?  
Like what is this? All right. Well, for what it's  worth, my ponderings and and I'm I I reserve the  
right to change this in 10 minutes, but here's  what I came up with. So, back in 2016, there was   this cheesy little WF video, right? And the first  thing was you'll own nothing and be happy. And  
and that got a [clears throat] lot of air time.  Famous. Yes. Yeah. Number four was you'll eat   less meat, you know, and here we are with like,  you know, alpha gal ticks running around and,  
you know, hamburger at seven a pound. And then,  but number eight was the one that caught me the   most cuz this one really bothered me. And number  eight was by 2030, Western values will have been  
tested to the breaking point. Now, why Western  values? Why not Chinese values? Why not African  
values? You know, and ever since then, I've had  this strong sense that my country is under attack,   right? Kids don't know. Oh, they they're confused  about gender. We don't even have a border anymore.  
Um the pillars of of everything like morality,  like you have Pete Hex saying it's totally okay to   take boats in the Caribbean as long as we suspect  they're running drugs. Just summarily execute  
them. These are not Christian values. They're not  my Western values. They're not Western values. We  
only punish the guilty. Period. I mean, that's the  essence of Western values. You punish the guilty,   you spare the innocent. You don't kill innocent  people. That's why we're different from Stalin's  
Russia and from the Mongols. And like that is that  is the west. It's why we're different from Israel   which is not part of the west. So yeah that's  that's I've never heard that before. Can you  
restate that? In the w world economic forum 2016  they put this video out. Yep. And it's western  
values will be tested to the breaking point. Mhm.  And so people's, you know, I'm this kind of a guy.  
If somebody says they're going to do something and  then it happens, I'm thinking maybe they did it,   you know, it's just how how I'm constructed  in this story. So, so that's a legal.  
Yeah. [laughter] Well, it's it's something I  live by. But, um, it this has been, you know,  
just watching this unfold. So, on the one hand,  this is all just errors of judgment and late stage  
empire and things rot and fall apart. Okay. Um, on  the other hand, you say it's just too deliberate.   So, so, um, you know, in my community at Peak  Prosperity, we have a framework we use. We call it  
the easy hard framework, right? Developed by one  of my one of my, um, uh, subscribers. And, and so,  
here it goes like this. If something's easy, well,  the elites want it. And if it's hard, they don't  
really want it. So, I've been astonished at how  easy it was for these flock cameras to suddenly   appear everywhere. You know, 100,000 of them,  every one of them requiring municipal decisions.  
I'm I work on in the local town offices down here  in my my spare time. Um nothing's easy at this  
level, but somehow 100,000 cameras went up and  that's all about invading our right to privacy,   right? Our our our sense of privacy, Fourth  Amendment, you know, just to be secure in  
my persons from searches and seizures and uh and  somehow that was easy. Now, if on my farm I wanted  
to dig a pond which would support life and if you  dig a hole in the ground and water goes in it,   everything shows up magically, that would be very  hard. [laughter] super hard, right? You know,  
if I wanted to do that, that'd be very hard.  But if I wanted to go down to Home Depot   and buy pesticides and spray them all over my  property, go for it. How much you have at it? So,  
I kind of feel like this easy hard framework when  I start looking at this way, the easy stuff is the   stuff that's not affirming of of life, liberty,  pursuit of happiness, everything I hold dear. And  
the hard stuff is stuff that actually makes  life better. Right? I was in the co thing. I  
was full-on warrior. You know, I worked with with  Pierre Corey and Paul Merrick and the FLCCC and I  
I I'm still on the board at the IMA and and the  people are just like, look, can I just use this  
repurposed cheap very safe drug like doctors have  always used? If they choose to use something off  
patent, fine. And that was very hard. I mean, the  whole weight of the system came down on them. Oh,  
you want to put people on ventilators and give  them ries with a upwards of 85% kill rate? Easy.  
rewarded. And so you just notice this over and  over again. And then you finally get to I think  
the last great thing to skewer here is that we  have markets. They're free. They're fair. They're  
trustworthy. Maybe imperfect, but they they're  where honest participants come to set prices  
um amongst each other in a fair and open way. And  that's just not the case anymore. And it hasn't  
been for a while. That's the final black pill for  me. I mean, it was one thing to discover that, you  
know, building seven probably didn't just fall in  on itself because it had Yeah. airplane parts on  
the roof or that multiple people were involved in  the Kennedy assassination. Okay. You know, those  
those truths dawned gradually for me. But markets,  I mean, markets take place on the basis of the  
most simple and self-evident principle in life.  It's almost like a principle of nature, supply   and demand. and they take place transparently  or so I thought. I mean it's it's really hard  
as an American to accept the fact that markets  and I think I speak for many when I say this  
are fake. Mhm. I would agree. I would agree. You  [snorts] want to think of something that's hard?  
You know what's hard? Getting the gold at Fort  Knox audited. Oh my gosh, that's so hard. Yeah.  
I wonder why that is. So [laughter] because it's  not there. But um my last question to you is what  
counsel would you give? If people have made it  this far into the conversation, they I'm certain  
agree with the way that you think. Um you know,  putting truth at the center of your decisions.  
It's the only way to think. Uh what advice would  you give to people about their personal finances  
in a moment of turmoil like this? [snorts]  Well, this is the um Excuse me. Woo! Woo! Gaze,  
I got a little cold. Sorry. [laughter] Good to  get those out. Just let them go. Um, well, this is  
this is so I don't do what I do, Tucker, so that  I can like make people feel anxious. I don't like   stirring things up. I I really don't like that  at all. I what I want to do is find enough truth  
where I go, look, if we put these dots in a row,  what conclusions do you come to? And sometimes   they're not easy conclusions. And I understand  I'm not really in the data business. I'm in the  
belief challenging business. So, you mentioned  the red pilling, right? Yeah. So when I say like   you know the whole thing that happened with co is  kind of like oh you know look there's this really  
awkward stuff that's happening but for people  to accept that they had to give up some really   important things maybe like faith and authority  right a belief that the medical system is there to  
help them they're like powerful beliefs and that's  a an emotional process so I understand I I I put  
up pretty hard information for people because it  challenges big beliefs but I've gotten very good   at it and and if you can get through that then you  get to some conclusions which is like oh Maybe I  
should be a little bit more responsible for my own  outcomes in the future, right? Maybe I should grow   a little bit of my own food. Not 100%. But maybe  3%. And you know, going from 3% to more is easier  
than going from zero, right? Zero is a hard place  to start from. Uh maybe I should be responsible  
for my own safety and security. Uh maybe once I  understand how the markets actually work that in  
fact, you everybody should understand completely  how the money system works, right? I got an NBA.   They taught me how to compete for dollars.  I was in the arena and then finally I read  
Creature from Jackalion and I was like that can't  be true how money is made and you find out banks   make money out of thin air. That's what they do.  Yes, they do. And there's no limit on it. And when  
you figure out, wow, humans with no limits and in  perverse incentives, we're going to get more money   printing. So I'm like, great. What do you do with  that conclusion? Nothing I can do about that. Oh,  
well, I can hold some gold, some silver, land,  like things that that stand the test of printing   over and over again in history. Um, and so my  counsel to people is, you know, get really get in  
as much context as you need and no more to begin  to figure out if you have to make some changes in   your life, right? And for a lot of people, they  come to conclusions like, oh, I should safeguard  
my wealth a little bit more, which means you  have to actually understand what wealth is, hint,   it's not dollar bills. Um, and so once you figure  that out where where wealth originates from, you  
can start to make different decisions. And the way  I think about it is there's primary wealth. So if   you live on a rocky stretch of New Mexico desert,  you got very little primary wealth. But if you're  
on a, you know, 18 ft of Iowa top soil, you got a  lot of wealth, right? So the primary wealth is is  
in the land itself, right? Oil in the ground,  coal, all that stuff. Secondary wealth is what   happens when humans bring that stuff to market,  right? So trees become lumber, fish get to market.  
So secondary wealth is is the means of production.  And then tertiary wealth is dollars, stuff. It's  
representations that that point to that. But  money itself, currency has no value if you can't  
buy something with it, you know. So what do you  do with it? Like you know, and so I tell people  
almost everybody's been marketed to incessantly  that they have to have all their money in this   little tertiary system. All has to be here.  You should have stocks and bonds, diversified  
currency, big bank accounts. But if you don't  have a lot of stuff underneath that, I submit   you have very little actual wealth. because this  stuff is a claim on wealth, right? It's like what  
what do you do with dollar bills on a deserted  island, you know, start a fire with them, I guess,   you know? But um so once we start to understand  where real wealth comes from, this is how I think  
people protect themselves. You move if you're  100% exposed in tertiary, get down into primary,   secondary wealth forms as much as you can. Um for  me, that's meant, you know, I live on a farm. Um  
I know not everybody can do that. uh and I have  a lot of the ability to sort of attend to my own   energy, food, water needs here. Not all of them,  but significant proportion. And because of that,  
I've built a a buffer in my life. And so that's  what I tell people to start building buffers. Not  
crazy bunker Idaho guy who's going to like survive  forever on his own wits and skills and beans,  
right? Um nobody can do that. But again, remember  the pace of change. If big shocks are coming,  
and I'm convinced they are, you want to have as  many buffers out there in your system as you can   so that you can absorb that shock as much as you  can. I think that makes for a happier life. And um  
and I started all this cuz I was a little worried  that things could break apart in any moment. Turns   out they're more durable than I thought. But now  that I'm here, Tucker, I I realize this is such a  
this is how I was meant to be living anyway,  and much more close connection with nature,   you know, and um feet on the ground and having  real relationships [clears throat] with our cows  
and our chickens and all that other stuff. And  also deeper relationships with my neighbors and   so a everything's going to get local, right?  B, you're going to not have to do everything,  
but you're going to have to find out what you're  good at and and bring that to your community. C  
um I just If I could counsel, this is the deepest  thing I want to counsel is whatever we're about  
to go through. I don't want the people I love  to have to accidentally lose their humanity.
What does that mean?
Hard decisions are probably going to have to be  made at some point in in this particular story.  
And I feel like everything that my culture is  pushing towards is asking us me to be inauthentic,  
disconnected from self um and capable of  doing really horrible things. Um I I just  
you know this has become I didn't start  out this this was crazy Tucker. It was  
actually a tweet that did it for me. Um grew up  Protestant. I think uh uh church was uh Easter,  
Sunday, and Christmas. That that was the whole  whole game. Been there. Um and hadn't read the   Bible at all. And I saw this tweet that said,  "I've turned to God not because he spoke to me,  
but because evil made itself known." Exactly. And  man, it landed on me and I said got goosebumps. I  
was like, "Oh, that's that's kind of true, isn't  it?" And that's my that's the organizing principle  
that that everything fits in right now. And  because to me, what's evil? That's a short word,  
but it means something that revels in and promotes  death, destruction, debauchery, demoralization,  
decay, just anything that it can do like that.  And so the number one way that evil has its way,  
of course, is by distracting us and keeping us  hopelessly, endlessly distracted with things.  
Yeah. And um if the other side of that is  good, well, good's hard, right? You know,  
good takes conscious decision-making and and you  have to keep practicing it and you fail at it. And   so that's when I first started reading the Bible  was just a few years ago. It was just such a page  
turn. I'm reading it out to my wife Eevee. I'm  like, "Hey, humans have done this before. Look   at this Romans." You know, exactly [laughter]  what there's nothing new under the sun. And  
and and so I honestly truly believe that this AI  thing, this is our tower of babble. It's a device  
by which we've convinced ourselves we can finally  get that exalted seat next to God even parody we  
are God now we can be one of the team you know and  and of course that uh lack of humility that pride  
um that arrogance has always backfired and I'm  convinced it's going to backfire again and I just  
while that backfiring is happening I don't want  the people I love to have to lose their humanity   um which means engage in the destruction  as it unfolds around them. I couldn't  
agree more. I had a a path so similar it's almost  identical. But it was, you know, seeing evil that  
drove me to God and and to the Bible and to the  realization that we've done this before. In fact,  
it's on a loop and the root of it is man's desire  to be God, which is a evil but but also fruitless  
quest. I mean, it's, you know, it results in  the Tower of Babel. I couldn't agree more. So,  
but but when you say lose their humanity, what do  you mean participate in a system that strips them   of their humanity? Yeah. Yeah. I feel like it  like pretty much every everything that's easy  
that's arrayed around us um are just invitations  to begin losing our our morality. They're they're  
invitations to um betray ourselves and and our  sense of integrity. And because they never just  
ask you one day to just line up and shoot somebody  in the back of the head and push them in a ditch,   right? There's a long series of mini usurppations  along the way. And it all begins with the small  
things and that's where they start. And so I've  completely changed my opinion about all kinds of   things. You know, pornography and how easy that  is, right? And um you know, you're only 5 minutes  
away from an alcohol store in any community, you  know. Um it just everything that's easy is just   something that's I think designed to pull us off  of our game. And our game is it's a short life.  
You know, we're all here for a reason. And I think  the reason is to find out what you're really good   at and bring that to other people and um to make  everything around you better. Um and and honestly,  
I'm I'm here talking to you. Long story, but um  the thing that gives me the most grief is that  
I can open a window now on a July night, leave  a light on, and in the morning there'll be one  
little dulttery white moth flapping about. And  when I was a kid, if I had done that, it would  
have been this frightening menagery of rhinoceros  beetles and luna moths and giant walking sticks.  
And it's all gone. It It's gone. We are destroying  life. And I'm really clear about this. We're here  
to shepherd this. And it's not just about humans.  If we improve life for everything around us,  
humans are part of that. And and I think it's our  job to be conscious of that and and treat that as  
well as we can. And and we're just we're just  not. Um, and that's yeah, though I have to say  
I I cleaned bugs off window sills this morning.  Um, fortunately and unfortunately that's not true   where I live. [laughter] We still have a lot  of insects. Let me ask you one final specific  
question about markets and it's about the gold  market as measured by the the famous spot price  
that you pull up on your phone. Beginning with the  2022 Ukraine war, it was really clear to me that  
the US dollar was on a course toward irrelevance  and that we would lose our status um as the holder  
of the world's reserve currency. I was just very  obvious based on what the B administration did.   I think it was going to happen anyway, but it was  accelerated with that uh with kicking rush out of  
Swift. That was my opinion. So, I started buying  gold and I saw it go up up up and up. This war  
starts in February. It goes up over five grand an  ounce and then it drops. And I've never understood  
why that happened. It doesn't make any sense to  me. I'm I'm still a gold buyer. We have a gold   company. I mean, I believe in it. A non-scammy  gold company. I mean, I'm I still buy gold,  
but I don't understand its movement. Do you?  I don't think anybody actually really does. Um  
but there even before 2022 there was this giant  tectonic thing that was happening where gold was  
really just going from west to east right so I  used to track very very carefully um some of the   big Swiss refiners right they would just report  like how many kilo bars and where are they going  
they were all headed east they're all headed to  China and this is way before 2022 which is why   well why I wonder how much gold actually sits you  know in London or in New York um and so so for a  
long time I was like oh nobody cares right because  gold at that time was you know thousand 2,000 an   ounce or something like that right so nobody  cared so then the war happens and obviously  
what should have happened was gold should have  just absolutely sky on all that uncertainty right   um and and silver as well and oil and all that the  exact opposite all those things happen so markets  
right but our trade data just came out and so for  January and February and for March we've never  
exported more gold ever in our history um probably  representing 10 to 11 million ounces depending on  
how you score the spot price during that period  and that's a huge number. Yeah. And where did  
that go? That was actually our number one export  even more than oil, right? Like it's a pretty big  
deal. So, um, we're hemorrhaging our gold as if we  don't care and I you get back to China. I wonder  
if that wasn't the quid proquo. Hey, you know,  you're going to do this war thing. We'll help you,   but we don't want to pay 5,000 an ounce for  your gold. We'll give you four or something  
like that. That could be part of the deal. So,  this is gold held by the federal government.   This is called non-monetary gold. Um, and so  that's something non-monetary gold's held in  
comics, for instance. It's not the stuff held  at the Federal Reserve. We think I'd also love   an audit of the Fed. Can we get one of those?  Um, that would be a fine thing to see what's  
going on there. But I the flow of gold around the  world, it's kind of it's a funny thing. If you   really want to get into gold statistics is very  hard because they're super opaque and they just  
they tell you it's a barbarous relic. It's not  important, but no, you can't see any of this data,   right? the the London data is really hard to get.  Um, you can you can more easily find instructions  
on how to build nuclear devices, right, on the  internet. It's just like it's this weird thing.   So, I know it's important because they won't tell  me how much we have. They won't let me see the  
statistics, you know, but they say it's not that  important. So, we know it's important. And we also   know that central banks around the world have  been accumulating to the point now that gold is  
actually a larger holding in central banks around  the world than treasuries. Big crossover moment  
there. So, my sense of gold is somebody's working  extra hard to just keep it tamped down because it  
would be really awkward right now if it went up  in price and signaled something inappropriate. And  
so, that's what I've learned about our markets.  They're actually signaling devices. They're not   legitimate places of inquiry and price discovery  between honest buyers and sellers. They're often  
used to set prices. So, do I have time? So,  they're like cable news that way. I mean,   they don't they're not there to tell you the  news. They're there to shape your opinion about  
the news. Yeah. Yeah. Of course. Please tell me a  story. I would love it. This is a great story. So,  
so, um, gold was illegal from 1933 to 1973, right?  And then, okay. So, there was a lot of concern.  
They're going to make it legal for US citizens  to own it again. So, they're very concerned that   it was going to go up in price, maybe a lot, and  that would send the wrong signal. And of course  
they just spent 1968-69 when the London gold pool  surreptitiously batten all the you know London and  
New York just working extra hard to keep the  price of gold down for reasons. Um and so all   of this was going to be very awkward. They just  didn't want gold going up in price. So we have  
because of Wikileaks a cable that went between New  York and London and they said hey here's our plan.  
Um the primary gold dealers tell us that if  we start this thing called futures for gold,  
we can so overwhelm the actual real price of gold  with this paper price that we will create enough  
volatility and that people will lose interest in  it and and not not we can we can diminish their   desire. They said to hoard gold. So they just they  conceived it right away. They're like look if we  
can make this paper price thing, we can wang the  price around until people get frustrated or lose   interest and and that that's how we can control  this. So that's how it started. Think of a bake  
light phone, you know, the phone connected  to the curly cord in 1973. Think how much   more sophisticated the application of these uh  algorithms are today to manage prices. And they  
did that for optics. They did that for political  reasons. Is it any less important today? No,   of course not. Spiking price of gold signals a  loss of confidence in our fiat debt-based money,  
which is fundamentally a faith-based currency. You  can't have something poking needles at your faith.  
But one faith that's never dimmed is in gold.  So the Chinese believe in it, the Brits believe  
in it, we believe in it, the Germans, I mean,  everyone believes in it. That's interesting  
to me. So as uh as a store of value for like the  average American family, because the price is down  
relative to what I think it ought to be or what  it was six weeks ago, is it a good time to buy it  
now? I've I've been a consistent buyer of gold for  [clears throat] 25 years now. Um, and I'll tell  
you this, every time I've bought it, it it's hard.  It was really hard when I first bought it at 300,  
and 500 was extra hard. 800 was super hard. It's  always been a hard uh decision, but over over the  
long haul, um, you know, gold has performed better  than the stock market over that entire period by   a wide margin. Um, and I can I it will continue to  do so because we're going to print and we're going  
to print more money and we're going to print a lot  of it coming up. The Fed's already printing money   right now, $200 billion over the last 6 months.  Um, you know, the US government effectively prints  
because we spend out send out right now $1.2  trillion of interest payments, which is cash   that goes back to the market that we have to then  borrow more, which the Fed enables. So, so this is  
all we're just going to print and print more and  and that's the game. And to put a a story on this,   you know, the United States, it took all the way  to 1990 before we accumulated our first three and  
a half trillion dollars of federal debt. [snorts]  So from the founding of the country to 1990 took   Yeah. three and a half, you know, what did we do  with that first three and a half trillion? Well,  
we built interstate road systems and, you know,  every bridge, school, house, you know, we did   a lot. We uh the US government's tacked on $3.5  trillion dollars of debt in the last 12 months.  
And what did do we build a lot of interstate  highway systems and new schools? [laughter] I  
can't name one thing to be honest. Howard Lutnik.  Yeah. Right. Yeah. And and foreign wars and and uh  
Yeah. It's just that that's the thing. But you  know that on that basis though that's going to   be three and a half trillion every six months  and someday we'll wake up it's every one month  
and then it's three and a half trillion every  week. And this is just how this story of fiat   money has gone literally hundreds of times  throughout history is best of intentions,  
but you lose the brakes. We lost our brakes in  August 15th, 1971 when we severed from the gold   standard. And ever since then, it's been sort of  like Dick Cheney growling at us that debts don't  
matter, you know, but they do and they will.  Yeah. Chris Martinsson, thank you for that,  
for the clarity and the honesty um and the wisdom.  I appreciate it. I hope you come back. Thank you.  
Me, too. That's it for us tonight. We will see  you tomorrow and next Wednesday, 6 p.m. Thanks.
￼
