Chapter 1: The UK bomb plot mystery
the calming voice of the internet. How are you? [laughter] I'm the happy I'm the happy warrior. You
know, [laughter] you are you are the wise one.
Um, [clears throat] did you uh did you see the story in the UK, the bomb plot?
Yes. It's already stinks to high heaven. It is It just makes no sense. No sense.
[laughter] So, I don't know if you saw about an hour ago, there was a report.
So, just for the audience before we go down our rabbit hole. So, the whole story started with a bomb plot against the British
bases. I wasn't planning to discuss this, but I knew this is something that will probably peique your interest. A plot against British bases, sorry,
American bases in the UK. One American base in the UK. Apparently, there was a van there. Had explosives. Allegedly, the base went on alert before they even
spotted the van. It was the night before. I think the base went on Delta alert and then when the van was spotted, other bases went on alert. Trump spoke
about it, Rubio spoke about it, the prime minister spoke about it, other officials spoke about it. It was a big thing. Explosives, men were captured.
Apparently, someone called the police.
Then we find out the next day these five men were released on bail. That's when I'm like, "Okay, what the hell is going on?" That's when it got bizarre for me.
And then we then got a report earlier today, I think, that there was no trace of any explosives in that um in that van.
Nonviable explosives they called.
[laughter]
Exactly. Which is what's that? Flour. Uh sugar. What exactly is that?
And then afterwards there's another report that they were apparently smuggling fuel. Do you see that one? Mhm.
Okay. And then an hour ago, it gets worse.
Then this is a story by the times. The suspected plot near the RAF Fairford base was disrupted after one of the five
suspects called 999 himself, which is 911. 999 himself in the early hours of Sunday before the group was arrested on
suspicion of explosives and terrorism offensives um offenses. Investigators are examining whether the men were acting as proxies
for a run and whether the incident involved surveillance and a dry run or a test security at the base to test security at the base. Sorry, a dry run
to test security at the base or an operation intended to send a message to the British government. The suspect's motives in calling the police are also
under investigation whether he got called fear or whether it was part of the plan.
[laughter]
[snorts]
And it's not over. Just now as we're going live, reportedly that was just came out as we're going live. All five
suspects are of the incident are actually being investigated for links to a foreign actor and not fuel theft as initially reported [laughter]
exactly. It's all over the place, man. I have no idea what's going on.
And and the woman who called in who lived in this small farming community where like large white van sort of parked a skew is going to obviously raise attention. Not not a well thought
through plot for sure. She says that she saw at least eight people and that nobody from the government has
interviewed her or bothered like so that's where you know it's messy when when when they released the guys that the me the the stories all over the map.
Um yeah this is I don't know what to make of it but if it's a false flag it went ary you know and uh and I would be
very suspicious of Iranian ties. are going to look for that hard. But you know if this stinks to high I initially believed it could be Iranian ties because it was downplayed by Trump.
It was downplayed by British authorities. I'm like okay if it's a false flag they would want to make want to make a big deal out of it to actually
leverage it if it was a false flag unless it went arai as you said it didn't go well. Well then Rubio today starts talking about uh how significant
it is after the reports of fuel smuggling. He says, "Suffice it to say that what happened, what almost happened, what could have happened in the UK over the weekend is a very
serious situation. It's one that clearly involves the hands of a foreign actor. I won't get into detail about that yet. I know a lot of people are disturbed by
the news that some of these people have been released on bail. We are dealing with elements in the world, in the case of Iran, for example, have openly threatened to attack American interests
globally. We're going to always take that very seriously. there'll be repercussions for for that if I ever if it ever h to h if for that if it ever
were to happen or even attempted. So now he's making a big deal out of it. He's pointing the finger at Iran even though the men were released on bail by British
authorities. So I don't know if it's a false flag by the American by American intelligence and the British authorities spotted it by accident and foiled it for
the Americans and the Americans are pissed off at the Brits for foiling it.
Even Trump on the day it happened, he's like, "We've been these people have been we've been observing them for a while.
They've been under investigation for a while. Did you know that?" He he openly said, "These people have been surveying being surveyed for a while. So, they knew about it. They've been watching it.
Nothing adds up. I never thought this uh this whole incident become such a big conspiracy." I I think the guy who who
poked the um you know poked one of the dingies with a with a knife, I think he was denied bail like like they denied bail for mean tweets in the UK, right?
You know, these these guys were charged initially under the counter under the terrorism act and also under an explosive uh law of some kind. Anyway,
maybe that one fell apart, but terrorism bail 36 hours in. Nope. Sorry.
Potentially potentially by the IRGC that they kind of implying the IRGC was behind it and you release those people
on bail. So, if the people were allegedly affiliated with the IRGC, there's no possibility they could maybe somehow another country could help them escape somehow. It's so bizarre.
Well, apparently it's pretty easy to get on and off the island in dingies. So, I don't know. I mean [laughter] what a wild story.
Chapter 2: Energy market manipulation
Yeah.
Um what else is uh the economic situation looks even more bizarre? Bond yields, the volatility in the bond
market, strategic petroleum reserves still getting uh drawn down. Um where do you want to start?
Well, I uh I was um I was really taken by the interview with Jeff Curry you just did, right? And and so I've been this guy for a long time. You know, I
was a silver uh futures trader and a and a gold futures trader. So I got really used to the futures market, how it operates, right? And so he was talking in there about how this idea that you
have all these people trading oil, but they never touch a barrel or they're trading silver, but they never produce any or consume any, but there's all this
activity. And I watched what I will politely call shenanigans unfold in those markets. And I had to back away because they're they were clearly
manipulated. And it's very difficult to run a successful strategy when somebody has a manipulation scheme running um because they they own the book. They
they know which way things are going to go and you just it's almost impossible to trade let alone invest in that. So I just backed away. Now I'm watching the
same stuff happening in the oil markets right now. And uh I know Jeff was kind and and sort of said well you know even if the if the US government just
pretends that it might intervene in those markets it's enough to get people to go away. open interest falls because people are like, "Hey, rigged game potentially. I don't know how to I don't
know how to control that risk." So, you you pull back. But we have lots of reports in March. The Financial Times
said that the big trading houses for oil said there's a new player. They're really big and we don't know who they are. Which is totally bizarre because
these markets are small enough that the the key traders, they can watch the tape and tell you who's placing that trade on it, right? They they know where the order flow is coming from. to have a new
player suddenly show up and uh in volume and be interested in selling things. You know, it's not hard to sort of figure
out who that might be in this particular story. So, um but Jeff got right up to the point. He's like, look, these are
markets and if you break the markets, you break the price mechanism. That's the signal that goes out and tells people how to behave, what to do, it's
the incentive that that makes the whole thing work. Adam Smith wrote about this 300 years ago. I mean it's like the most important thing is that invisible hand
of the market is the prices. So if you have somebody openly manipulating prices, they are by definition sending the wrong signal out. And that wrong
signal is going to really cost us. So price, supply, demand. Those three things come together and they cross at a
certain point on a chart. And price is supposed to be that thing that helps us settle a difference between supply and demand, right? Too much supply, price
goes down. Whoops. you know that increases demand vice versa. So what's the problem if you set the price too low? [clears throat] Well, demand is kept too high relative
to supply. Is that true? Well, if that was true, we'd see stock piles uh getting run down. Is that happening? Oh,
you bet it is. Watching the global onshore chart just like it's just nosing. We we haven't been this low in forever in a day. And so the prices are
still too low relative to supply which you know as as Jeff pointed out even if we have this 12 13 million barrels as
claimed coming out we're still short seven that places it as inarguably the biggest energy shock in history even
just that amount missing which is to say nothing of Russia and so and there's the cost of getting that oil out has been very very expensive to get it out that's
not being taken into consideration and also that's mainly crude oil that's coming out not refined products just wanted to add Right.
And zero LG. I think Qatar just extended its force majour out through November. So that's that's a huge missing piece.
That's I think they were 20% of the global LG market. So hey, you know, everybody who counts on that is now going to be competing. But even if the price goes really high, it doesn't make
more LG hit the market. It's a very tight market. It's you can't you can't make the the LG trains run faster than
they do. So we're short. We're short LG product compared to what Taiwan needs, what Japan needs, what Europe needs.
That's going to create extremely high prices. But more to the point, Mario, it's going to create shortages. And that's the problem.
What was the quote that um Jeffrey mentioned? I should have written it down. Someone was speaking and and he read it. He started looking for it and
found it where they actually pretty much implied in a very clear way that they will be interfering in some way. Do you
remember the part where he kind of found that quote? He took his wild he took his time to find it.
No, I don't remember that part. I got such a weird part. I wish I wish I got it. And he went there and he looked for com I don't know if it was Besson or
someone else that was speaking and essentially I never I don't know how it slipped my my radar and they were essentially saying that we will like don't go against us. We will set the
price. I'm just paraphrasing here, but it's just such a bizarre thing to just so plat blatantly talk about. And he was
so upset. I've never seen Jeffree so upset. He's just so frustrated by it all. And he was explaining how um Brent,
so WTI is not the most accurate indicator because, you know, it's it's US crude. And you've got Brent.
Exactly. And then you've got Brent, which is the a good indicator except it can't be uh exchanged for a barrel of oil. It's just a paper paper asset. Um,
so then if you look, I can't remember what it was, but there's a certain indicator that shows the price of the actual barrel of oil coming out of the straight home was is about $140 a
barrel. Again, that's crude oil. Putting aside diesel, um, and then if you look at the refined product with the shortages in Russia, the issues in the Gulf, they can't get refined product
out. They're getting crude oil out. Um, it's looking pretty terrible. I actually got a um, where is it? In Europe here, I
saved a few. There it is. Um, that came out today. E the EU has paid they've admitted it actually the European energy
commissioner Dan Jorgensson he said um that the the EU has paid $113
billion 113 billion extra for energy without one extra molecule of gas or or
oil because of the Iran war and the Ukraine war. Um so they've paid an extra $13 billion without getting anything additional. That's just additional cost
because of these two wars. Um they're getting squeezed. They're getting really really squeezed.
Yeah. Well, as as we've talked about before, um if this isn't intentional, uh they're doing a very good job of
Chapter 3: Europe's energy crisis
stumbling their way into what's going to be the largest energy crisis, which is going to create an economic crisis because energy is the economy, and also
a food crisis, which is coming shortly because, you know, bad bad combo. But we got the El Nino year, right, which it is also double whammy Europe, right?
Because they're getting a little bit of a drought over there. So El Nino tends to make rainfall where it didn't used to and stopped falling where it did. It sort of messes up that pattern. So in
Europe, that's meant that their prime rivers for exporting things, you know, up and down and transporting it within the European continent are too low to
really conduct uh sufficient trade. So So they're getting they're getting hit, you know, left, right, and center at this point in time. And of course, they have their own policy blunders that
they're going to have to sort of struggle through. Europe's done a lot to really hamstring itself, which is weird because their response seems to be based on all the stuff I'm seeing on Twitter
at least, there's a very strong push to try and convince Europeans that they want to go to war with Russia. And German youth have already responded and,
you know, protested and said, "No, we we don't really have anything against Russians. We're cool. Don't want any part of that war." But that's what Europe does. They get themselves in
trouble and they go to war. It's kind of an old pattern for them.
It is. [laughter] That's That's not a nice jab at them. They've been through a lot, Chris.
They've been through a lot. Um,
[clears throat]
but how how um how sustainable is this?
How long could the Cuz I understand the price could be manipulated. But when it comes to diesel prices, jet fuel, etc.,
that cannot be manipulated because people at the end of the day, this is product that people have to buy. And that one, you know, we've seen record after record being broken every week for
the last few months now. So that cannot be manipulated. But the manipulation on the paper market, what's the point of it? Actually, let's
put it aside. What's the point of it? Is it just optics? Because if the end product cannot be manipulated in price, what's the point of manipulating the
paper product that has no link to the actual barrel of oil? Politics.
Well, it's optics, I think, at this point. But here's here's the problem with this. So the people we'll call them the masters of the universe, right? So
these are the power brokers in DC and they have very very tight relationship with maybe too tight with sort of Wall Street brethren, right? You got your
citadels and you know these big power players who move markets, right? And so for a long time they've been able to move and manipulate markets and they've been doing it for a long time. I
mentioned gold and silver but they've been doing it across most commodities for a long time. I think they also do it across the indices and um you know this is just it's something they've done now
they have enough experience at it they're like look we can do this we can we can set prices and we can do it for a reliably long time problem oil isn't
like gold like when we mine gold really we know where all of it is like even if a ship went down in the 1500s we'll find it you know and it sits on a shelf so so
because of the stocks and flows you can you can fudge around with the price of gold for a long time if you want um and
uh and they did now a lot of it went to China as a consequence of that and I think they're having to slow that down with price but you know they were able to do it for decades and they were very
good at it as Joseph Tainer wrote about in his book collapse right like why do why do complex civilizations collapse why are we not all speaking Latin
because the Romans just endured you know and it's because complex societies get to a point where all of a sudden your
ruling elite your your your managers are too far away from the action they forget they forget how the world works they forget what makes things why why your
culture was powerful to begin with. They they just forget stuff. And so Joseph Tainer called them distant managers, right? It's the distant manager problem.
They're just too far away. So I think that the people who are currently manipulating the price of oil think, hey, this is how the world works. You set prices in the market. The market
sends signals to people. We're sending the right signal that this war isn't as bad as we thought cuz look, oil's not that expensive. Um, and you do that, but
you forget because you're a distant manager that this is a physical market for not like gold. This is a nonnegotiable substance in an economy.
If you run short on diesel, your economy stops working. If you run short on jet fuel, your planes don't fly, right? If
you run short on gasoline, your cars don't go anywhere. And that's that's a whole different beast from banging the ass at 2 in the morning on gold so it
doesn't send the wrong signal after an FOMC meeting or whatever they've been up to, right? So this is they're really risking an actual
serious amount of damage here that um I think we can all feel coming. You know, it's like, oh, this is really something's this is not good. People
feel it, but man, there's nothing like a diesel shortage that will just stop you in your tracks.
Yeah. Have you looked at the latest updates with the Yanboo pipeline? Apparently, it's operational again.
Chapter 4: Yanbu pipeline uncertainties
They're starting to export a lot of uh lot of VLCC's. I think we're lining up there. Let me see. I've got my uh satellite images. Where is it? There it
is. Yeah. Um from Sunday shows them loading nearly 10 million barrels of crude oil. Let me send you the picture,
Paul. We could show it to Chris. Uh at the Yamboo and Alunai Alunay terminals now along with additional refined
product shipments on top of the 10 million barrels of crude oil. A total of 40 tankers were visually identified in the area of the terminals. That's a lot
of oil, but it's still from what I understand the pipeline is a lot of the the pumping stations are still destroyed or unop inoperable. Uh do you know much
about the pipeline and how long for it to be operational? Again, also I was informed today, not sure if you saw this on my show earlier, but I was informed today by someone um pretty close to the
negotiations and to the administration that the strikes of the Houthies, unless something changes in the next few days,
they're they're going to happen and they it's going to be the US is 50/50. He doesn't know, but it's going to be the Gulf countries coming together and
striking the Houthis um with the support of Europe. I think he means the UK because of the refueling tankers. Uh but
if that happens then you know Saudi is going to be on fire again I assume.
Yeah. So the um let's start with that pipeline. It it's actually a series of pipes um going east west right. It starts at the Alab refinery area
right which is one of the that's the largest one in the world actually. And it starts at about 100 meters above sea level and then it has to cross over this
thing called Gunsite Pass which is about 1,000 meters high. So it has about 900 meters of of lift that has to happen
there. Now they some of the pumping stations got got wrecked but not all of them. So when they when they showed they
were bypassing these pumping stations, yeah, you can reroute because the apparently, you know, the pipes came in, the pumping station got wrecked, but they rerouted them around, but you don't
have that pump. So it's impossible that unless they replace those pumping stations that they're going to have resumed full flows, right? And full
flows before they say it's operationally 7 million barrels a day. You never saw, I think, more than 4.5, maybe five, but I think 4.5 is a sustainable number that
was going before it got wrecked. Now, after it got half wrecked, I think they, you know, they still have some pumping stations, but they don't have them all.
So, there's not a chance in the world they're going back to full operational capability till they get all of those pumps there because it's very hard to push liquids up and over, you know, 900
m of of elevation. It's just it's very heavy. Um, so I'm suspicious because you know the Saudis have been vague about
this and nobody said what the actual capacity is. I finally heard somebody utter that unnamed source. It could be three and a half million barrels a day.
I'd be surprised. Um, but you know, I I could maybe see that. But now we see all of these other tankers there and you showed that that nice picture of those
tankers there. But what I can't verify is are they actually being filled or is that just optics again? Have they parked some tankers there to make it look like
this? And the the fog of this is getting worse and worse and worse. I you know I've they can know
they can know if it's being filled I learned this recently is they look at the shadow of the maybe you know this already of the tankers and as they fill it just goes deeper into the water and
the shadow becomes lower. So that's how the the people that track these things are able to tell if a tanker is full and how full it is whether it's full
capacity or not. But 10 million barrels is not that much either Chris. 10 million barrels is if let's say it's 3 millions a day 3 million a day um well
let's say two two million a day that's 5 days worth so they would have had the the the pipeline I think was announced to be operational days ago so 10 million
over five six days doesn't sound like it's too much yeah um it it's it's getting tricky to figure out what's actually going on
because you know the United States government has been really leaning on keeping things as as vague as possible right so we just found out that there were eight Marines that were injured
that might have been on ship, a commercial ship. We don't know which one. Probably on a tanker. Maybe they had some whisbang, you know, weaponry that they were trying to defend it with.
Didn't work. We don't know. But but the one thing the United States government has not given me one of yet is a picture is a picture of a ship that they've
escorted through or a conga line of them, right? This would be so easy to do. Hey, we're getting all these ships through. Click. Here's the pick. Um, so
I'm starting to get suspicious that there's lying on all sides. Uh, I don't trust what Iran's saying. I don't trust what the US is saying. saying, "Don't trust what the Saudis are saying." You
know, remember JeanClaude Junker Junker, the uh the ECB president at the time back during the 2008 crisis. He said it
right into a microphone. When it becomes serious, you have to lie. I think things are serious right now.
You You remind me of one of my guests, one of my regular guests, Philip Pilington. He doesn't You know, Phillip, he doesn't he doesn't believe anything.
I I like him a lot. He's such a fun guest. He doesn't believe anything.
But he goes to me, he's like, "Mar, I will not believe any of those satellite images unless I see a photo of that ship in the water." I'm like, "Yeah, but like
how is a photo of a ship randomly in the water going to help more than a than a satellite image. [laughter] That's just he's such a fun guest." And
then later I catch him. I go to him. I'm like, "Man, do you remember the Yambi pipeline was destroyed?" Because he was criticizing satellite images. They can never be trusted. Then later in the
interview, I'm like, "Did you see the Yamu pipeline? How destroyed it was?" Um, he's, "Do you see the satellite images?" Like, "Yeah, it was horrible.
That's why I'm telling you, it can't be operational again." And I got him. I'm like, "Ah, those satellite images you believe." He's like, "I knew you're going to get me, Mario." It was fine.
It's a couple of days ago. But it is that's But I actually told him something. I'm like, "It's just getting so difficult to understand what's
happening because having sources of truth has become difficult.
That that makes it so tough. it just whenever there's a source of truth that is trustworthy that is actually giving factual information
either it gets hijacked or it gets muddied um and then you just don't know like like as you said if satellite
images have been trustworthy how do we know they remain trustworthy I don't know how they could interfere in satellite images but let's say they can
the website tanker trackers they've been great we've been using them throughout the entire war are they still as reliable now as they were 5 months ago maybe, but because of
how much misinformation there is out there, it's just everyone's skeptical about everything, right? I mean, even if we saw the
satellite photos and the sinking shadows and and so this tanker's getting heavier. Is it being filled with oil or are they pumping sea water in there?
[laughter]
I didn't think of that. This is, you know, you've been through this a lot, haven't you, Chris? You've been you've seen things getting screwed up time and time
again for for many, many years. I didn't even think of that possibility. So, I mean, I I spent a lot of time on CO, right?
Chapter 5: Truth and information warfare
So, when it first broke, um January 23rd, 2020, I sent out an alert to everybody who follows me and said, "Uhoh, there's this thing coming." We didn't have a name for it yet. Um but,
you know, I saw these these photos that showed me that that China was shutting down Wuhan. Like, you don't do that.
China does not care that much about human life. This is one of their main industrial centers. You don't just shut it down. So, I was like, "Uhoh, look
serious." Right? Um, and um, the first time that uh, I think I was uh, by
February 5th, I had started to be very out of step with uh, the New York Times, Washington Post, they were like, "Oh, it's just the flu. Nothing to worry
about." And I was like, "No, this looks I was saying this is going to be kind of a pandemic thing." Um, February 5th, my wiki page got taken down, right? It'd
been up 12 years. And the editor, whoever that was, this random person, you know, with a with a uh some nom
plume screen name, said that I was a non-notable person and that my degree was too long ago and it didn't directly handle viruses or whatever, you know,
and and so I I saw that and then I got my first strike uh on YouTube on in March and it was the day after I
mentioned this stuff called chloricquin phosphate, which is a precursor and now we have a better drug called hydroxychloricquin. But there was a 2005 paper out of the NIH where I was like,
"Hey, you just you just you just mentioned I'm gonna get a strike now, I guess, as well." Yeah, cut that part out. No, no, but I mean, I watched this happen. I'm like, and that was March and this is before
even Trump had mentioned like somebody was already on the job of making sure that that information didn't get out.
And that's where I first went, okay, [laughter] this is this is not remotely what I thought it was. This is a this is
an operation of some kind. Right? So when it becomes serious, you lie, right?
I the lying, this is very serious what's happening right now. And of course, we know there's going to be more lying.
Why? Because Trump is going to try not to lose the House andor the Senate in November because he's going to get tangled up in endless amounts of, you
know, legal things and maybe impeachments and all of that. So he will do, trust me, Mary, it's going to get wild over the next 35 days. They're going to do I wouldn't I'd be shocked if
we didn't see oil in the 60s or something. just whatever whatever they have to do to say everything's fixed and it's all back and if they have to lie
they'll lie and if they have to bend a few arms they'll bend a few arms like like the UK um MTO is is not a reliable source of information right now for
ships that have been struck don't do that to me oh [laughter] no
there's nothing left I was actually thinking about it two days ago I'm like if you came to get get screwed then I'm No,
but how do we know? I I got to I got to send someone to the street of hummus every day with a little notepad and a little
Kodak camera, I guess. You know, telescope and yeah, all that. Well, um I was just reading an
article in a in a it was shipping related and so all these ship captains sort of read these things and they said, "Look, we need to know when there's incidents because this is sort of how
they gauge risk and they have to understand things." are like they used to really trust UK MTO but it's now it's it's reporting stuff either not at all
or very late. Um and so they they were complaining because they're like this is not acceptable. Like the one thing that
you don't mess with with captains is when they're incidents they need to know about them and that's they take it very seriously.
H and there's obviously the possibility I'm still in that camp based on all the the the like obviously I'm always
skeptical and the more I learn the more I become more skeptical. I still think oil is coming out but my bigger concern is not whether oil first refined
products but number two is I've said this already earlier the cost of it.
It's not sustainable to be escorting ships having all these different drones and helicopters and fighter jets but I think this is more they know it's not
sustainable. The goal is to keep it going while negotiating to give the US more leverage, but um
it could backfire because I if you keep pushing Iran in that corner, they may be the one to escalate. I don't know. I I
wouldn't be surprised if we see Iran escalate before the midterms. One of my guests said it earlier today, Bobby Bobby Jones said it earlier today, but
that's it's been my concern for a while is just before the midterms will be the ideal time politically and strategically because Iran could sustain this as well.
They've got so many millions barrels of oil out there in the Indian Ocean. They got out after the MOU was signed. It's like tens and tens of millions of barrels they got out 70 million or
something after theou was signed. So the Iranians can sustain this. But um I really they hope they strike a deal soon
because it's not sustainable. on so many levels.
Well, [clears throat] so I mean what are we watching right now is is there was a big article in the Washington PO, sorry, Wall Street
Journal just yesterday that said, "Oh, Iran's really losing its grip on this trait. It no longer controls it." You know, United States is just getting everything out that it wants to get out.
That's a narrative that's that's been sort of put forward in this story. And but I keep hearing reliable reports from
Osent uh channels that people are reporting explosions in the straight like hearing lots of particularly over this past weekend and every day. Yep.
What are those explosions? Well, it could be that Iran is sending drones and we're shooting them down. But we're shooting them down with very expensive interceptors, right? Let make a number
up. Million dollars a pop, right? So, so when you're hearing explosions, in a minimum, you're hearing millions and millions and millions of dollars being
spent to try and protect a few million barrels of oil that that's trying to get through at the time, right? So, you got that. Meanwhile, the shipping rates cuz
so many so many ships have been struck and also it's so perilous right now.
I've heard that it's anywhere from 10 to as high as $28 a barrel to get that stuff from the source to the where it's
going to go. Now that's uh on top of so if Merban light or or Murban medium is going for whatever um you know 140 150
it's going to be 178 by the time it gets to where it's going if they're taking that top rate. I've heard it's about
2025 million now to get a tanker to Japan from the US.
So $50,000 a day to 1.3 1 whatever million dollars a day.
Mhm. I think that's the big issue and that's not just in the theater where all the explosions are being heard. This is kind of this is a worldwide phenomenon at this point in time which
says that we're seriously short of tankers right now relative to the amount of oil that's being shipped which is that's what that says right supply and
demand. So those are the places where I still look at and I see supply and demand actually working in certain like the shipping rate is what it is. Okay,
that's fine. Um price of sulfur is what it is. That's fine. But we were even seeing today in the US uh there's a
difference between the diesel futures or heating oil the futures uh which have just been going down sustainably for the past week now and actually the price
that you still have to pay if you want the actual physical product at the pump or pumped into your house. So we're starting to see those two things separate from each other.
Um I I I don't think the people understand how difficult it is to navigate all this because you've got to navigate all these
Chapter 6: Navigating modern media
different sources and what's reliable, what's not reliable, what's biased cuz some things are reliable but have some some bias one way or another. And you've
also and something I'm obsessed with I've been obsessed with all my life. I learned it as a kid seeing my family split politically is not have
confirmation bias. So if I believe this war is a stupid idea and then there's if I believe the US is losing the war
militarily or the war is a stupid idea and then I see an indicator that contradicts what I believe. I'm always I try my best to not fall prey into
dismissing anything that doesn't agree with what I already believe. It's like an obsession of mine and like trying to balance those two things of like, hey, just always be objective, not be confir
have confirmation bias, always be open-minded while trying to figure out what sources of of information to rely
on. Just it's just so difficult. It's so much easier to just pick what sources to believe or not to believe. Oh, this one says this, which I already believe.
That's a great source. Oh, this source says something I don't believe. I'm going to dismiss that source. And I see that as well. So when a Wall Street
Journal article comes out saying, "Oh, Iran's so if someone is critical of the US foreign policy and a Wall Street Journal critical of the war, Wall Street
Journal article comes out saying Iran's military capabilities beat expectations.
US intel officials were surprised by their underground missiles. That's 80% of them there, not 30%." Everyone takes that. See, see, we told you, look at
Iran's capabilities. Look at that report. It's become fact. Then the Wall Street Journal reports something. Since we're talking about this, let's say they
haven't reported anything like this, but let's say the Wall Street Journal report confirmed um the US has destroyed Iran's
ability to fire to fire drones at ships or US is using a new weapon to intercept all drones and missiles. That doesn't
fit the narrative of someone that's disagreeing with the war and they're like, "Oh, Wall Street Journal. You believe the Wall Street Journal? They're full of shit." Obviously, different
journalists, not all journalists are equal, even within the Wall Street Journal. That's I know it's unrelated, but it's a struggle I've been facing every day. It is so You've been doing
this for so much longer. I don't know how you balance it and how to try to figure out the truth because that's why you always dig for for your followers to try to understand really what's going on.
Well, I I do and and that's very well said and I I really try to practice the same thing. Um and often I find that if if I find myself getting um angered or
vexed or like I'm really dismissive of something, it is probably because it's bumped up against one of my biases, right? Um, and so I just here here's my
here's my promise to everybody, especially myself. When the data changes, I change, right? But what's data, right? It used to be so much
easier to get data once upon a time. Now everybody understands information is a battlefield. And so now it's just it's
you have people and bots and entities and algorithms that are specifically there to just chum the waters, get you
outraged, get you distracted. They're there to put um they just absolutely flood the zone with misinformation or close information. And this happens all the time now. So I see this every day.
Iran strikes ship and all these people there's 50 channels showing this ship burning, right? And then I have to search it and I find out, oh, that was from March. Now, how did all 50 of these
channel, you know, accounts suddenly get the same ship, you know, burning image and and run it all at the same time?
Right? So that that's an op run by somebody. And I don't know who. It could be Iranians, you know, or it could be our own side saying, "Hey, if we can get
people to bite on a false image, then we can say, "Oh, look at you spreading misinformation, take you down a notch." So, you got to you have to be really careful now. Really careful.
And also the people that are trying to dig for the truth. You gave the example during co you've had your Wikipedia page taken down. Mine has been played around
and, you know, kind of used against me as well, but I've I've expected. I've spoken to the co-founder of Wikipedia and Wikipedia is a mess. How it works. It's a mess. Yeah.
But um even in the last 24 hours, I Candace Owens I um there's a whole hit piece on her something about her being
lesbian or bisexual when she was younger. Like anyone gives a these days and about her husband or someone
and her team some random theory. It started going viral. My team sent it to me. I just ignored it. All I did is I went on Twitter and I wrote, "The more
they attack Candace Owens, the more I feel I want to listen more to her." I posted that. It got a lot of attention and I went through it as well. I posted
omething yesterday that went very viral. It was I'll paraphrase it. It was um I posted a video of Gaza and it said
um one day my grandkids will ask me how this how we allowed for this genocide to happen and I still don't have a good
answer for them. That was it. I posted it, walked in, you know, I do 100 my team does something post. So it went extremely viral. obviously goes against a certain narrative and I went through
the same thing for the millionth time as well that Candace has gone through on a bigger scale and then I get all these guys Mark the and FDD and all these guys
posting criticizing me but it's um and and I I don't think the audience understands what we have to go through
behind the scenes. Um you I'm sure you've had character assassinations happen to you. I'm sure it's happened to you over the years, especially during co
they were out for blood properly. Have you had how far did it go with you? How far did it go?
Um, it it went pretty far. Uh, and and so you start to if you notice, you start to notice there's a variety of patterns they use. So, the first thing is the
swarm attack, right? Just tons of people coming at you, preferably from big accounts. I'm not sure if they're actually those accounts or those accounts have been sold off or if
they're otherwise leveraged. I don't know. But they try to get the biggest accounts possible to just shout you down, right? Oh, you're you're way out of your lane. You don't know what you're
talking about. You all that. And then you've get these next layer a little bit more subtle. Oh, Mario, I used to follow you and admire you. Right. So, they're
just trying to like see if they can get to you, you know, on that level and and like um uh and and then you get the things where people start actually
putting things against you that are false, hoping that you spend time trying to fight that, right? You know, they just put lies out and hope it sticks. Um
and I've gotten really good at just blocking people. I just block like crazy them. My blocking finger gets really sore on some days like on when when when
uh 9/11 we had the 25th anniversary of 911. Pretty big day, right? It it turned out to completely disrail everything that I thought my country stood for. It
was used to attack our liberties, our constitutional rights, killed a million Iraqis, kicked off a war against terrorism, which is a war against a
noun. Guaranteed to lose. How are you going to win? How are you going to win a war against rocks?
War against a noun. [laughter] You're the first person to say this.
They declared war against a noun. I love this. Yeah. Guess what? I'm going to see. It's a forever war. Who knew, right?
[laughter]
Um but but you know, and I just posted this I just posted this little video about WTC7. You know, W you know, building 7.
It free fell for two and a/4 seconds. It free fell at the speed of like if you dropped a bowling ball in the air next to the building, they would have tracked
each other for 2 and a/4 seconds. That means there was no resistance to 40,000 tons of structural steel. Just missing. Just went away.
So, it's a thing, right? Just like that's an odd fact right there. And so, all I did was I said, "That's odd." And I called for another investigation. I said, "We we deserve an answer as to how
this is possible because it's violating Newton's third law as well as the law of conservation momentum. You can't violate physics laws. Sorry, not yours." So, I
But that's all I said. I didn't say it was explosives and it was the CIA. I didn't say any of that. I just said, "I think we need another investigation." Oh, did I get swarmed? still a sore
subject [laughter] for whomever.
But the more they swarm, the more I know it's still a sore subject to them. So, I actually take that on and I say, "Oh, this is still there's still some still this is a juicy area. You know, it's not
dead yet." I haven't asked you this for a while.
Chapter 7: Geopolitical tensions
How worried are you that this is going to u efforts to broker? Because that was my next question. Qatari, that's by
Axio. Qatari efforts to broker. By the way, the Qataris have been leading the mediations recently and trying really hard. I was actually going to post something. I'm like, I won't post it.
I'll probably get a lot of too many swans. I was going to say Qatar is trying because I saw the interview between saw clips of the interview
between Pierce and the Qatari prime minister. I'm like and and I saw the statements that the Qatari prime minister are making and then I'm looking at the Israeli statements that Tanya was
like there's going to be an imminent attack. Smatri is like literally Smatri today said we need all of the Middle East and Europe to depend on Israel. So I'm seeing those statements and then I'm
seeing the Qatari prime minister in an interview saying we need peace. We need to find a solution to this. We shouldn't continue with war. Iran's even Iran
bombed us. We need to you know geography forces us to work together blah blah blah blah blah blah. I'm like far out.
And and the post I wanted to say is Qatar is so Israel Israel is doing everything they can to
restart the war. Qatar is mediating on a daily basis to end it. And you want to convince me Israel is the is a closer
ally to the US than Qatar? I didn't post it cuz I know it's going to be too polarizing. But anyway, a piece of news
just came in now because it links to my next question. Qatari efforts to broker a new US Iran agreement have made little progress when ne we go when negotiations
stuck I've heard that again I've heard that before over Iran's demand to lift US naval blockade and Washington's demand for nuclear concessions according
to Axios Iran insists it will only consider nuclear concessions after the US returns to the Juneou while Washington sees little reason to
compromise because in what I've heard because Trump is believes or is is is is is is emboldened by the amount of oil
that's going through. That's an that's why I'm so fixated on how much oil is going through because it's such an important factor in this. Qatar, Pakistan and Egypt continue mediation
efforts. But that links to my next question. Um where do you think we are and what do you think um where is this
heading in your view? All I can really go on is, you know, every so often, there was a Bloomberg article just just yesterday where they noted that there's
this strange thing happening with oil prices right around noon when the United States will release some friendly news about how the deal Trump wants a deal
and then boom, oil gets sold and and they started to get suspicious. Even Bloomberg's like going, "This looks a little little weird." Um, and so Trump keeps coming out saying they want a
deal, but there's no there's no neat there's no deal going on. We're not talking directly with the Iranians. They have not, as far as I can tell, I I
listen to Galibbah, um, Arachi, all of them, and they they haven't budged.
They've same thing we saw back in in June, right? We have thisou, we have these seven points on it. This is what we want. And I I haven't seen them budge
off of that. And the United States keeps trying to come out and say, well, those aren't acceptable, but we have some other things that maybe they they'll accept or and Iran just keeps saying, as
far as I can tell, no, we want these things. We we weren't kidding, right?
We're going to charge a toll or a fee, whatever you want to call it. you're going to give us reparations, you're going to release all of our funds, etc.
Right? So, they had their points. I haven't seen them come off of any of those points yet. And and I think that's where we're at. So, yeah, no progress um
because we're not talking because there isn't a serious effort to use diplomacy here. And uh that's worrisome, right? Because we
don't have a military solution at present.
And if we're not going to have a diplomatic solution, then this can't drag on forever and ever. I mean, yes, they're sneaking stuff out and they're doing ship to- ship transfers and
they're, you know, sort of workarounds, but we're still at least, I don't know, 25% of the energy is missing from there.
Maybe maybe closer to 30%. You can't do that. That's that's like the biggest energy shock in all of history. Mystery. Why is China still so quiet about this?
Uh, I don't I don't And I don't understand why Europe isn't screaming about this.
Or are they? There's a good theory that Bobby Jones again mentioned to me. He's like, cuz I'm trying to understand why is that oil coming out. I believe the oil is coming out. People could dispute
that, but I'm what I don't understand is why is Iran allowing it. I still believe Iran can strike more ships and cause more havoc. Um, I do believe Iran's
getting a cut out of some of those ships. But what Bobby's like, he's like, "Mario, don't take out China from this equation. What if China is the one?"
Because they don't want high energy prices either. What what about we're they're the ones that negotiate some sort of agreement telling the Iranians, hey, let X number of ships through so
you know the global economy won't collapse because our economy would take a hit as well while you do your thing.
So don't let all ships through, don't open the straight of Hamuz, but don't completely close it. So maybe China plays some sort of role in what's going
on in the straight of Hammuz the same way they Yeah, it was the same way they reduced their demand during the war which helped the US but also helped their economy.
So, bit of a win-win. Poor Taiwan, though.
I Well, I know they they didn't get their arms. What did you make of of Xi's visit? I I didn't I didn't think I didn't see anything come out of it.
Did you see anything come out of it?
I just saw I just saw Trump excited looking at planes and showing she photos and she was just poker face the whole time. [laughter]
That was it. There's nothing else. I don't know what they talked about behind the scenes, but based on she's face, it didn't seem like a pleasant conversation. I'm worried. Honestly, I'm
worried about Taiwan. For anyone that I I I don't I just I think Taiwan could get screwed out of all this.
Oh, yeah. They're [clears throat] they're they're definitely in the crosshairs, but I don't think it's China's way to go and attack. I think that they just sort of
assimilate, you know, they'll just they'll just surround Taiwan and and then Taiwan's going to have to just um deal with them, right? And yeah, I agree.
You know, I don't I don't think there'll be war. I think it's more China, sorry, the US will slowly walk away. Now, one can argue that's net a good thing because
Taiwan is part of China. Taiwan is actually called the official name is the Republic of China. So, chi Taiwan is China and most countries recognize that.
It's a different debate. Like I also see the strategic interest for the US.
There's a whole other discussion, but um from a Taiwanese perspective, they're looking at all this terrified waiting for Trump to leave office and Ukraine's obviously running out of interceptors.
American allies are getting screwed left, right, and center. Europe is screwed. Asia is screwed. Taiwan is very screwed. Ukraine is super screwed.
Australia, my home country, So and catch up with if the diesel export ban gets played.
Chapter 8: Bond market volatility
No, they trial ballooned it, right? They gave it they gave it a try. It didn't go over all that well. 10-year Treasury shot the moon that day.
It was like bad. It was a bad deal. Uh so so the markets weren't all that happy with it, but you know, they haven't totally backed away from it. Chris Wright said no. Trump recently said we
we're still considering it. So if that happens, the number one screwed country, speaking of you already said the name, Australia, they they import the most
diesel of any nation like on any basis percentage- wise or just an aggregate.
Then the UK totally hosed in this, right? But do we not send diesel to Canada? Because we import 4 and a half million barrels a day of oil from them.
So okay, we maybe have to make an exception. What about Mexico? Oh, okay.
We'll have to make it. So we're going to probably make all these exceptions, you know, and then what even is it, you know? Oract if they actually go through
with this though, talk about screwing your allies over. Like if we do that export ban, we absolutely our allies get hit the hardest and the worst.
Can't the allies just dump US treasuries in response? Is that a possibility?
Sure. You know, if they wanted to try that, um that's that's uncharted territory.
That's pretty scary to think about. The weaponization of treasuries, that's [laughter] that's a no no.
Yeah. Well, you know, we've got Scott Benton there. Remember, Scott worked under George Soros and he was a superstar there and then he went out on
his own. He formed a hedge fund and he blew it up. I mean, just wrecked it.
Then he got a second chance, very rare on Wall Street. Took that one to 5.1 billion assets under management, like 180 clients, institutional clients. Ran
that down to 525 million before it closed. Um, so he he he's not, man, he gives off this aura that he's smarter than everybody. And so he knows the
right price for gold and he knows the right price for oil and he knows the right price for yen and he knows the right price for treasuries and he says I am the house now, you know. Um and I'm
not buying it. I I think he's I think he's not as um as uh clever as he thinks he is and and I his track record isn't
good. But uh any man who thinks he knows better than what the markets what it's just wrong man for the job. Wrong man
for the job. We need prices in the markets. Can't believe he said I am the house now.
Mhm. And that house is on fire. I think Treasury is up 35 40 basis points since he said that. [laughter]
When you have your mentor turning against you, Jen Miller turning and not any mentor, the mentor being Jen Miller. Mhm.
That that is a hell of a red flag. Um but yeah, the the US Treasuries
uh on April 9th, days later, today the 10-year note yield is plus 7. Okay, this is an interesting post by the Kobes
letter. He says, "On April 9th, 2025, Trump announced a tariff pause." Show this chart. Meanwhile, U Paul, there it
is. So, [snorts] on April 9th, 2025, Trump announced a tariff pause as the 10-year note yield hit 4.6%. I think you mentioned it earlier when the craziness
with the tariff force started. What eventually got Trump to fold is the bond market. You don't mess around with the bond market. Well, days later, Trump said he has been watching. He even said
it himself. the bond market, which was a major driver of his decision to pause the trade war. Today, the 10-year note
uh note yield hit uh is plus 70 basis points above the April 2025 high. It seems the US Treasury has given up for
now. The US 30-year Treasury yield rose uh above 5.6% for the first time since 2002.
That's another 36 basis points this month alone. 8% mortgages will arrive next week. That is crazy. The volatility in the bond market is insane, Chris.
Those are is it they just seem like very concerning numbers are very concerning records being broken or highs being broken.
Chapter 9: AI infrastructure bubble
Well, absolutely. So, um I mean obviously everything keys off of the tenure, right? So, all of our mortgages and credit card debt and student loans,
auto loans, everything, right? So, the cost of capital is getting more expensive. This comes at a particularly bad time when when uh the the bond
market is of course suffering because there's huge competition out there right now. All these AI companies, the hyperscalers, they have been tapping every source of liquidity they can to do
this multi-t trillion dollar buildout, right? So, first they they raided their free cash flows, took those to zero, and they didn't have any more free cash flows left. So, then they tapped the
bond markets as heavily as they could, hundreds of billions of dollars. Lots of very sort of shady dealings going on there. And then Google a month ago even tapped equity which is even more
expensive cost of capital right $80 billion Google needs money right um kind of a strange thing for such a such a
behemoth that just prints money so so that's actually a huge liquidity vacuums going just into this AI thing right and
just we had a very concerning I think shot across the bow with Oracle declaring force majour across one of the larger centers they were involved in because they couldn't get the power they
needed which is the limiting factor in all of this that's going to be the We talked about that before.
I'm going to show you now the spending the AI spending just to quick have to give you the size of it. This is average annual infrastructure spending as a
percentage of GDP since 1850 comparing to the canals, the railroads, the electric electrification
age, the highways, the the telecom and fiber optic age. And now AI AI is at 3.6% railroads, which is the second
highest at 2.24% in the 1800s.
That's insane. That's a great chart. So, I actually really like that we have electricity and railroads and highways and telecom. I think those are good
things. Canals, too, I guess. But what are we getting out of AI? You know, we don't even know what the business model here is or how this is going to really improve anything at this point in time.
We know it's going to take jobs, you know, um but but it's it's clearly some mysterious race in the United States to build these out just pel and I wonder if
it isn't connected to the flock cameras, you know, which again um what AI data centers need, they need lots of input data. Well, 300,000 flock cameras gets
you lots of input data about about how how how the humans move around in their landscape, you know, if you need that
information. Um, but it's very clear that there's been some giant program that's got um the strongest possible
backing to get us into this AI world as fast as possible. Now, the problem is the the money doesn't pencil out. And we
can all any any analyst scratches at that and says, "Oh, how are you going to pay these trillions of dollars of capex back?" This isn't like a road that lasts
a hundred years. This is capex that's, you know, the chips burn out in three to five years and the buildings only last, you know, however long. How are we going to get these trillions back? Well, we're
not. Well, why aren't they concerned about getting their trillions back? Not sure about that. You know, got some theories, but it it's it's a huge bubble
at this point in time. And most people don't know this. The headline indexes are doing kind of okay at this point in time, but 56% of all the S&P stocks are
now more than 20% below their highs, right? So, the majority of the S&P by number is actually in a bare market at
this point in time. You wouldn't know that because the whole thing's being held up by just a few of these of these shares.
The entire economy is being held up by these shares by these uh companies. Now, as we wrap up, just to make the British story go back to what we first
Chapter 10: Concluding reflections
discussed. So, you know, the latest report that the the uh the the investigation or the charges are for explosives. Well, now UK
counterterrorism police say a quantity of petrol, but no explosive devices were found inside the three suspicious vans
discovered near the RAF Airford. Five British men were arrested. So now it's petrol again, according to counterterrorism police. This story is
all over the place. Were they just lifting petrol? Is that it? They were just out stealing.
I was going to make the joke from the from the bomber. They went there to the Lancer and that was like the only place they could find jet fuel. They needed jet fuel.
[laughter]
So just they got the siphon, you know, [laughter] anything is possible.
That's a that's a silly story. That'll be fun to try.
The irony is that the story of what looked like an Iranian sabotage operation against a US base may end up being a bunch of British men trying to
get petrol because the Iran war made petrol prices so high. Just the [laughter] irony. So there is an Iranian connection. Uhhuh. Exactly.
There is. Exactly. Exactly. [laughter] The closure of the straight at home was because of the war by Trump.
Oh man, Chris, the struggle is real. Thank you.
I have I have I have an announcement for you. Um I want to let let you know even though it's completely unrelated, but I feel like I don't know. I want to mention it to you, but I've uh decided
to get a dog because we spoke about it a while ago. Yeah. Yeah. You remember?
What are you getting? Do you know the breed?
Uh yeah. Yes, of course I do. And we might have found one. team is there talking to the owner and getting all the tests and all that. A flat cult retriever.
Interesting. All right.
It's a golden retriever. Have you Do you know what it is? Yeah. Yeah. Yep.
I'll show you a picture now. I'll send it to you, Paul. You can show it to the audience as well. Um, so it's a golden retriever. It's a bigger dog. Um, and
it's uh, so it it just fits my so I it might interrupt my interviews, but I don't really care and I don't think the audience cares if a dog just comes and
sits there. A lot of my guests have cats and dogs, but it does it doesn't misbehave. It's very intelligent. That's really cool for me. It's energetic and
stuff. And I'm always, you know, when you do hours and hours of interview interviews, having a companion helps instead of being alone for most of the day.
Um, and I'll have, you know, sitters and carers, etc. to make sure it's it's all taken care of when I'm doing my interviews, but it's I've never had a
dog or a cat or anything, but I'm so excited for it. A bit too excited. I keep mentioning it.
Oh, that's fantastic. Dogs are wonderful.
Dogs are just they're Yeah. Yeah. We have a German shorthaired pointer. Um and luckily we live on a farm because this thing might as well be a greyhound. She we go outside, she just
runs. She just runs. And so I have a sidebyside of, you know, 4x4 that I I just I just do laps and she just runs the whole time. So, I've never seen
quite as energetic a dog. Smartest dog I've ever had. Um, I can have whole conversations with her. Like, she's just over a year old, but we communicate really well.
So cool. Very smart dog.
Yeah. H um the first time, how old were you when you first got a dog? I was 26.
Does it maybe this example or another one? Did it impact your life much? And can give it a number like how much did it impact your life? If it's not much,
it's you could say that as well. I'm curious.
No, it's quite a lot because the dog has has um first off, they're just enthusiastic all the time. They're like, "Oh, boy, it's you." You know, every morning, you know, I love that. And and
they're also, you know, it gets me, you know, you got to you got to go out and they want you to take them for walks.
They want to engage with you. They want to do things, you know.
Um so they have a huge impact. And and by the way, they are just they they are just it's just something about how they communicate and how they interact with
humans, you know. They're just perfectly designed, you know, to be a companion.
Um, and they're really good at it. And so, yeah, I just I love having dogs.
Oh, I can't wait. You have no idea how excited I am. You'll say hello to him when he comes. I'll bring him up. You can say hello to him.
Maybe when we go to that bunker together, you'll meet him as well when we're in that bunker.
Absolutely. But don't forget to bring a year's worth of dog food. Okay.
[laughter]
All right, Chris. Thank you for your time as always.
Likewise. Thanks, guys. highly recommend honestly go to Peak Prosperity um and check out Chris's
website. He's got an incredible community as you can see from my conversations with him. Just full of wisdom and such a great person to speak
to. So check out Peak Prosperity um and subscribe or check out the content that he has. I'm off for tonight. Brandon
will take over. He's going to be speaking to Larry about the false flag or whatever you want to call it that's happening in the UK. And then right after that he's speaking to Karen
Kattowski. So, I'm off for tonight. I'll go through all your comments as I do every day and enjoy the rest of the night with Brandon or Wario. Thank you everyone.
￼
Sync to video time
