BROOKINGS
1775 Massachusetts Ave., NW
Washington, D.C. 20036-2103
www.brookings.edu

A N A LY S I S PA P E R
Number 20, June 2009

WHICH PATH TO PERSIA?
Options for a New American
Strategy toward Iran

Kenneth M. Pollack
Daniel L. Byman
Martin Indyk
Suzanne Maloney
Michael E. O’Hanlon
Bruce Riedel

A N A LY S I S P A P E R
Number 20, June 2009

Which Path to Persia?
Options for a New American
Strategy toward Iran

Kenneth M. Pollack
Daniel L. Byman
Martin Indyk
Suzanne Maloney
Michael E. O’Hanlon
Bruce Riedel

Disclaimer

Which Path to Persia? Options for a New American Strategy toward Iran is a product of the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution. The essays were written by Saban
Center scholars Daniel L. Byman, Martin Indyk,
Suzanne Maloney, Michael E. O’Hanlon, Kenneth
M. Pollack, and Bruce Riedel. Kenneth Pollack
also served as the overall editor.
None of the ideas expressed in this volume
should be construed as representing the views
of any of the individual authors. The collection
is a collaborative effort, and the authors attempted to present each of the options as objectively as
possible, without introducing their own subjec-

tive opinions about them. The aim of this exercise
was to highlight the challenges of all the options
and to allow readers to decide for themselves
which they believe to be best.
All statements of fact, opinion, or analysis expressed are those of the authors and do not reflect the official positions or views of the CIA or
any other U.S. Government Agency. Nothing in
the contents should be construed as asserting
or implying U.S. Government authentication of
information or Agency endorsement of the authors’ views. This material has been reviewed by
the CIA to prevent the disclosure of classified information.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

iii

Acknowledgements

The authors are deeply grateful for the financial assistance from the
Smith Richardson Foundation, the Crown Family Foundation, and others in the drafting and publication of this study.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

v

The Authors

Kenneth M. Pollack

Kenneth Pollack is Director of Research at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings.
He served as Director for Persian Gulf Affairs
and Near East and South Asian Affairs at the National Security Council, Senior Research Professor at National Defense University, and Persian
Gulf military analyst at the CIA. His latest book
is A Path out of the Desert: A Grand Strategy for
America in the Middle East (Random House). He
is also the author of The Persian Puzzle: The Conflict between Iran and America (Random House),
The Threatening Storm: The Case for Invading Iraq
(Random House), and Arabs at War: Military Effectiveness, 1948-1991 (University of Nebraska
Press).

Daniel L. Byman

Daniel Byman is a Senior Fellow at the Saban Center at Brookings. He is Director of the Center for
Peace and Security Studies and an Associate Professor in the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University. He has held positions with the
National Commission on Terrorist Attacks on the
United States (the “9/11 Commission”), the Joint
9/11 Inquiry and Senate Intelligence Committees,
the RAND Corporation, and the U.S. government. He writes widely on issues related to U.S.
national security, terrorism, and the Middle East.
His latest books are Deadly Connections: State
Sponsorship of Terrorism (Cambridge University
Press) and The Five Front War: The Better Way to
Fight Global Jihad (Wiley).

Martin Indyk

Martin Indyk is the Director of the Saban Center
for Middle East Policy at Brookings. He served in
several senior positions in the U.S. government,
most recently as Ambassador to Israel and before
that as Assistant Secretary of State for Near East
Affairs and as Special Assistant to President Clinton and Senior Director for Near East and South
Asian Affairs in the National Security Council.
Before entering government service, he served for
eight years as founding Executive Director of the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy. He has
published widely on U.S. policy in the Middle East
and the Arab-Israeli peace process. His most recent book, Innocent Abroad: An Intimate Account of
American Peace Diplomacy in the Middle East (Simon & Schuster), was published in January 2009.

Suzanne Maloney

Suzanne Maloney is a Senior Fellow at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings.
She has worked on the State Department’s Policy
Planning Staff where she provided policy analysis and recommendations on Iran, Iraq, the Gulf
States, and broader Middle East issues. Before
joining the government, she was the Middle East
adviser at ExxonMobil Corporation and served as
project director of the Task Force on U.S.-Iran Relations at the Council on Foreign Relations.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

vii

Michael E. O’Hanlon

Michael O’Hanlon is a Senior Fellow in Foreign
Policy Studies at the Brookings Institution. He is
also Director of Research for the 21st Century Defense Initiative and Senior Author of the Brookings Iraq Index and holds the Sydney Stein Chair
at Brookings. A former defense budget analyst
who advised Members of Congress on military
spending, he specializes in Iraq, North Korea, Afghanistan, homeland security, Nuclear Strategy,
the use of military force, and other defense issues.
He is the author of Budgeting for Hard Power
(Brookings) and The Science of War (Princeton
University Press), both forthcoming this summer.

viii

Bruce Riedel

Bruce Riedel is Senior Fellow for Political Transitions in the Middle East and South Asia at the
Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings.
He served as Chairman of President Obama’s Strategic Review of U.S. Policy toward Afghanistan
and Pakistan. In 2006, he retired after 30 years
service at the CIA including postings overseas
in the Middle East and Europe. He was a senior
adviser on the region to the last four presidents
of the United States as a staff member of the National Security Council at the White House. He
was also Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
for the Near East and South Asia at the Pentagon
and a senior adviser at the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization in Brussels. Riedel was a member of
President Clinton’s peace team at the Camp David, Wye River, and Shepherdstown summits. He
is the author of The Search for Al Qaeda: Its Leadership, Ideology, and Future (Brookings).

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

Table of Contents

Introduction
The Trouble with Tehran: U.S. Policy Options toward Iran . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Part I
Dissuading Tehran: The Diplomatic Options . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Chapter 1: An Offer Iran Shouldn’t Refuse: Persuasion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Chapter 2: Tempting Tehran: The Engagement Option . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Part II
Disarming Tehran: The Military Options . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Chapter 3: Going All the Way: Invasion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Chapter 4: The Osiraq Option: Airstrikes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Chapter 5: L
 eave it to Bibi: Allowing or Encouraging an
Israeli Military Strike  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Part III
Toppling Tehran: Regime Change . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
Chapter 6: The Velvet Revolution: Supporting a Popular Uprising  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
Chapter 7: I nspiring an Insurgency: Supporting Iranian Minority
And Opposition Groups . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113
Chapter 8: The Coup: Supporting a Military Move Against the Regime . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
Part IV
Deterring Tehran: Containment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
Chapter 9: Accepting the Unacceptable: Containment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
Conclusion
Crafting an Integrated Iran Policy: Connecting the Options . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 145

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

xi

Introduction

The Trouble with Tehran
U.S. Policy Options toward Iran

W

hat should the United States do about
Iran? The question is easily asked, but for
nearly 30 years, Washington has had difficulty
coming up with a good answer. The Islamic Republic presents a particularly confounding series
of challenges for the United States. Many Iranian
leaders regard the United States as their greatest
enemy for ideological, nationalistic, and/or security reasons, while a great many average Iranians
evince the most pro-American feelings of any in
the Muslim world. Unlike other states that may
also fear or loathe the United States, Iran’s leaders have consistently acted on these beliefs, working assiduously to undermine American interests
and influence throughout the Middle East, albeit
with greater or lesser degrees of success at different times. Moreover, Iranian foreign policy
is frequently driven by internal political considerations that are both difficult to discern by the
outside world and even harder to influence. More
than once, Iran has followed a course that to outsiders appeared self-defeating but galvanized the
Iranian people to make far-reaching sacrifices in
the name of seemingly quixotic goals.

either. Iran is an important country in a critical
part of the world. Although Tehran’s role in creating problems in the Middle East is often exaggerated, it has unquestionably taken advantage of the
growing instability there (itself partly a result of
American missteps) to make important gains, often at Washington’s expense. Meanwhile, the 2007
National Intelligence Estimate on Iran, properly
understood, warned that Tehran was likely to acquire the capability to manufacture nuclear weapons at some point in the next decade.1

Despite these frustrating realities, the United
States is not in a position to simply ignore Iran,

For its part, the Bush 43 Administration had no
explicit policy toward Tehran for its first two to

1

An Undistinguished Record
Perhaps not surprisingly, the track record of U.S.
policies toward Iran is not particularly impressive. Since 1979 Washington has tried everything
from undeclared warfare to unilateral concessions. These policies have done better at limiting
Iranian mischief making than their critics will admit but have largely failed to convince Tehran to
drop its support for terrorist groups, its pursuit of
a nuclear weapons capability, or its wider efforts
to overturn the regional status quo.

National Intelligence Council, “National Intelligence Estimate. Iran: Nuclear Intentions and Capabilities,” November 2007, available at <http://
www.dni.gov/press_releases/20071203_release.pdf>, downloaded on February 9, 2009.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

1

three years. The administration simply did not
know what to do about Iran and relegated it to
the “too hard box,” which led to crosswise tactical decisions—like accepting Iranian cooperation
against the Taliban and al-Qa’ida early on but
musing indiscreetly about bringing regime change
to Tehran after Kabul and Baghdad. Only in 20032004, after the surprising progress of Iran’s nuclear program was revealed, did Washington adopt
a deliberate approach to Tehran. In part because
of the inherent difficulties in dealing with Iran,
and in part because of the deep divisions within
the Bush 43 Administration, the resulting policy
attempted to straddle at least two very different
approaches: attempting to mobilize international
pressure on Iran to give up its nuclear program
while retaining, at least rhetorically, the threat to
pursue regime change (if not military action)—
and being unwilling to take further actions in the
diplomatic sphere that were seen as “soft” on Tehran or otherwise inconsistent with regime change.
The U.S. officials charged with implementing the
Bush Administration’s policy of diplomatic pressure on Iran played a weak hand surprisingly well.
Despite the constraints placed on them—particularly their inability to offer significant positive
incentives to Iran or to other key international
actors to secure their cooperation—they devised
novel financial sanctions that caused real pain in
Tehran and convinced reluctant foreign governments to apply ever greater pressure, including
four UN Security Council resolutions enacted
under Chapter VII of the UN Charter.
Despite these accomplishments, the Bush Administration’s approach was wearing thin before the
president left office. Although battered, Tehran
has so far withstood the international pressure
and has made steady progress toward acquiring
a nuclear capability. Throughout the region, Iran’s
star is seen as waxing while that of the United
States wanes. Consequently, there is an emerging
consensus within the American foreign policy

2

establishment that the Obama Administration
will have to adopt a new policy toward Iran, and
possibly a more ambitious one, which can succeed where its predecessors’ have failed.
The political, think-tank, and academic communities have not been reticent about proposing
new Iran policies, but the overall result has been
somewhat disappointing. No one has been able to
devise an approach toward Iran that would have a
high likelihood of achieving American objectives
at a reasonable price. Moreover, the options that
have been proposed often seek to accomplish very
different goals depending on what the respective
advocate believes the United States should be
seeking to accomplish. The result has been a cacophony that has confused far more than it has
clarified at a time when the American people and
their new president desperately need a clear-eyed
explication of the various options available so
that they can make an informed choice regarding
which course to follow.
President Barack Obama has already taken up
this gauntlet. Since coming to office, he and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton have repeatedly
stated that they would like to begin a process of
direct dialogue with Tehran. Still, the president
has emphasized that such engagement will be part
of a wider strategy of carrots and sticks aimed at
encouraging Tehran to modify its behavior. In
particular, the president has made clear that he
hopes to build an international consensus to impose much harsher sanctions on Tehran should
the Iranian leadership refuse Washington’s newly
extended hand of friendship. Whether this approach can do better than its predecessors remains
very much up in the air. At the very least, it should
be thoroughly examined and tested to determine
how best to implement it, and to try to ascertain
the likelihood of its success. Moreover, because its
prospects are uncertain and American policies toward Iran have a bad habit of falling short of their
mark, it is also important to consider alternatives,

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

contingencies, follow-ons, and fallbacks from the
administration’s chosen approach.

A Very Hard Target
The problem of formulating an effective new U.S.
policy toward Iran starts in Tehran. Since the
1979 Islamic Revolution, much of the Iranian
leadership has harbored considerable antipathy
toward the United States. Ayatollah Sayyid Ruhollah Musavi Khomeini himself saw the world as a
Manichean struggle between good and evil, with
Iran standing as the champion of good (and of Islam, synonymous concepts in his mind) and the
United States as the champion of everything evil.
This set of beliefs lay at the core of his thinking and
became a foundational element in the philosophy
and claims to legitimacy of the regime.2 While
there is no question that some Iranian leaders and
most of the Iranian people would like better relations with the United States, this core belief continues to inspire other, often more powerful, Iranian actors and institutions.3 In particular, Iran’s

president, Mahmud Ahmadinejad, is by all accounts a devout adherent to Khomeini’s conception, including his philosophical suspicion and
loathing of the United States.4 Even among those
Iranian leaders who have long since moved beyond the imam’s ideology, many still see the United States as a more traditional rival in southwest
Asia, where a great many Iranians believe that
their nation should, by nature or divine right,
hold some form of dominion.5 Khomeini’s successor, Ayatollah ‘Ali Khamene’i, may or may not
share his predecessor’s hatred of America, but his
words and deeds indicate that he is deeply suspicious, even fearful, of the United States.6
As a result, the question of Iran’s relationship with
the United States has been the “third rail” of Iranian politics since before Khomeini’s death in 1989.
Pragmatic elements in the Iranian leadership
have frequently argued for improved ties with the
United States, largely based on the need for Iran to
end its political and (especially) economic isolation and begin to revive its revolution-, war-, and

Said Arjomand, The Turban for the Crown: The Islamic Revolution in Iran (New York: Oxford University Press, 1988); William O. Beeman,
“Images of the Great Satan: Representations of the United States in the Iranian Revolution,” in Religion and Politics in Iran: Shi’ism from
Quietism to Revolution, ed. Nikki R. Keddie (New Haven, CT.: Yale University Press, 1983), pp. 191-217; Richard Cottam, “Inside
Revolutionary Iran,” in Iran’s Revolution: The Search for Consensus, ed. R.K. Ramazani (Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press, 1990), pp.
3-26; Massoumeh Ebtekar, as told to Fred A. Reed, Takeover in Tehran: The Inside Story of the 1979 U.S. Embassy Capture (Vancouver, Canada:
Talon Books, 2000), esp. p. 77; Baqer Moin, Khomeini: Life of the Ayatollah (London: I.B. Tauris, 1999), esp. p. 220; Robert Snyder, “Explaining
the Iranian Revolution’s Hostility toward the United States,” Journal of South Asian and Middle Eastern Studies 17, no. 3 (Spring 1994).
3
On Iranian public opinion, see Terror Free Tomorrow, “Polling Iranian Public Opinion: An Unprecedented Nationwide Survey of Iran,” July
2007, available at <http://www.terrorfreetomorrow.org/upimagestft/TFT%20Iran%20Survey%20Report.pdf>, downloaded on January 7,
2007; Karim Sadjadpour, “How Relevant Is the Iranian Street?” Washington Quarterly 30, no. 1 (Winter 2006-2007), pp. 151-162.
4
Anoushiravan Ehteshami and Mahjoob Zweiri, Iran and the Rise of its Neoconservatives: The Politics of Tehran’s Silent Revolution (London: I.B.
Tauris, 2007); Barbara Slavin, Bitter Friends, Bosom Enemies: Iran, the U.S., and the Twisted Path to Confrontation (New York: St. Martin’s,
2007).
5
On Iranian politics and the debates over Iranian policy toward the United States, see for instance Ali M. Ansari, Modern Iran Since 1921: The
Pahlavis and After (London: Longman, 2003); Daniel Brumberg, Reinventing Khomeini: The Struggle for Reform in Iran (Chicago: University
of Chicago Press, 2001); Daniel Byman et al., Iran’s Security Policy in the Post-Revolutionary Era (Santa Monica, CA: RAND, 2001); Elton L.
Daniel, The History of Iran (Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 2001); Anoushiravan Ehteshami, After Khomeini: The Iranian Second Republic
(London: Routledge, 1995); Mark J. Gasiorowski, “The Power Struggle in Iran,” Middle East Policy 7, no. 4 (October 2000): 22-40; Jerrold D.
Green, Parastatal Economic Organizations and Stability in Iran: The Role of Bonyads (Santa Monica, CA: RAND, 1997); Nikki R. Keddie,
Modern Iran: Roots and Results of Revolution, revised and updated edition (New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2003); Nikki R. Keddie
and Rudi Matthee, eds., Iran and the Surrounding World: Interactions in Culture and Cultural Politics (Seattle, WA: University of Washington
Press, 2002); David Menashri, Revolution at a Crossroads: Iran’s Domestic Politics and Regional Ambitions (Washington: Washington Institute
for Near East Policy, 1997); Mehdi Moslem, Factional Politics in Post-Khomeini Iran (Syracuse, NY: Syracuse University Press, 2002); Robert
Snyder, “Explaining the Iranian Revolution’s Hostility toward the United States,” Journal of South Asian and Middle Eastern Studies 17, no. 3
(Spring 1994); Ray Takeyh, Hidden Iran: Paradox and Power in the Islamic Republic (New York: Times Books, 2006).
6
On Khamene’i’s thinking regarding the United States, the best work available is Karim Sadjadpour, “Reading Khamenei: The World View of
Iran’s Most Powerful Leader,” Report, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, March 2008.
2

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

3

corruption-ravaged economy. At various times,
these figures have even attempted to open covert
channels of communication to the United States
to lay the groundwork for a rapprochement, most
notably in 1986 (in what became the Iran-Contra
scandal), 1995, and 1998-1999. However, in every
case, the effort was uncovered by more hard-line
elements in the regime and was quickly throttled.
Meanwhile, Iran’s hard-liners—who have consistently advocated a policy of across-the-board
confrontation with the United States by subverting American allies, supporting militant groups
that seek violent change to the Middle Eastern
status quo, and even mounting acts of terrorism—have not fully succeeded in steering Iran’s
America policy either. At times, Tehran’s course
has leaned hard in their direction, such as in
1987-1988 when Iranian forces attacked U.S. naval vessels in the Persian Gulf, 1992-1997 when
the Iranians mounted a diplomatic and terrorist
offensive against the United States and its allies
in the Middle East, and 2006-2008 when Tehran
provided Iraqi insurgents with weapons capable
of killing large numbers of American soldiers
in hope of driving the United States into a rapid
withdrawal. However, even in these instances,
Iran’s collective leadership typically refrained
from adopting the hard-liners’ most extreme positions and even made important concessions to
the pragmatists.7
Thus, seen from Washington, Iran’s course has often seemed peripatetic and perplexing. For long
periods, Iran has appeared to be America’s Middle Eastern nemesis, supporting every nation,
group, or person who wished the United States
harm and trying to block virtually everything the

7

4

United States sought to accomplish, often simply
because it was the United States making the effort. Then, often with little warning, Washington
would note a slight change in rhetoric or an obscure overture of unknown, but unquestionably
Iranian, provenance. In 1986 and 1998, Washington reacted quickly and took considerable risks
to reciprocate and make clear its desire for better
relations. In 1995 the United States was much tardier, in large measure because the Iranian gesture
was especially oblique. In 2003 the United States
simply ignored the opening from Tehran. Nevertheless, in every case, because those Iranians
desirous of rapprochement were unable to overcome the entrenched psychological and political
enmity toward the United States of other Iranian
leaders, the overtures quickly evaporated regardless of how rapidly, generously, or enthusiastically
Washington responded.
Of course, America was not exactly an innocent
bystander in these cycles of confrontation and
collaboration. Oftentimes, bellicose American actions (meant as such or merely interpreted as such
in Tehran) triggered belligerent Iranian responses.
In 1987-1988, the Reagan Administration, despite
all its cowboy bravura, was dragged into escorting Kuwaiti tankers, but Tehran assumed that the
United States eagerly sought the opportunity to
attack Iranian naval and air forces in the Persian
Gulf. On the other hand, some members of the
U.S. Congress in the mid-1990s and some members of the Bush 43 Administration in 2004-2006
appeared to be trying to deliberately provoke Tehran, and the Iranians took the bait. It is almost
certainly the case, therefore, that even the most
well-disposed observers in Tehran view American policy as equally confused and confusing.

In addition to the sources in note 3, above, see also Anthony Cordesman, Iran and Iraq: The Threat from the Northern Gulf (Boulder, CO:
Westview, 1994); Michael Eisenstadt, Iranian Military Power: Capabilities and Intentions (Washington: Washington Institute for Near East
Policy, 1997); Michael A. Palmer, Guardians of the Gulf: A History of America’s Expanding Role in the Persian Gulf, 1833-1992 (New York: Free
Press, 1992).

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

The net effect has been that the U.S.-Iranian relationship has functioned like the proverbial pendulum. At times, the United States and Iran have
developed tacit working relationships (such as
over Afghanistan and toward al-Qa’ida in 20012003) or even kabuki-like courtships (such as in
1998-2000). At other times, the two sides seemed
poised on the brink of war (as in 1987-1988,
1995-1997, and 2006-2007).
Because it seemed so hard for U.S. and Iranian
overtures to coincide, and because the Iranian
gestures appeared inevitably to be throttled by
the regime’s more hard-line elements, over time,
American policymakers increasingly saw the Iran
issue as a loser. Any effort to be proactive with
Iran, either to try to engage it and entice it into
a better relationship, or to confront it and try to
force it to behave better, ended up in the same
frustrating nowhere where it had begun. Because
the Iranian leadership was consistently unwilling
to jettison its ideological, political, and nationalistic antipathies toward the United States, it was
never willing to accept American offers for better
relations, most notably during 1989-1991 under
the Bush 41 Administration and in 1998-2000 under the Clinton Administration. Because Tehran
was also willing to allow further erosion of the

Iranian economy and to accept varying degrees
of international isolation and sanctions, whatever
pressure the United States imposed kept Tehran
weak but did not force a fundamental change in
Iranian foreign policy. In Washington, Iran policy
increasingly was viewed as a fruitless necessity,
one that policymakers sought to ignore to the extent they possibly could.8 Indeed, this sentiment
seemed to be the prevailing view of Bush 43 senior officials in the early years of that administration. Even among the academic and think-tank
communities, for most of the period between
1992 and 2003—except for the brief period between 1998 and 2000 when Clinton tried, ultimately unsuccessfully, to secure a rapprochement
with Muhammad Khatami—work on Iran policy
was largely relegated to a small community of experts, whose proposals were primarily tactical,
not strategic, in nature—and even then these were
frequently ignored by the policy community.9
The transformation of American and Iranian fortunes in 2002-2004 sparked both the interest in a
proactive policy toward Iran and an agitated new
debate over what such a policy should encompass.
Prior to 2002, Iran was seen (by the United States
and many countries throughout the Middle East)
as a difficult but largely marginalized troublemaker

See for instance, Martin Indyk, Innocent Abroad: An Intimate Account of American Peace Diplomacy in the Middle East (New York: Simon &
Schuster, 2009); Kenneth M. Pollack, The Persian Puzzle: The Conflict between Iran and America (New York: Random House, 2004), esp. pp.
244-342. Perhaps the most eloquent testimony to the relative lack of interest in devising a proactive strategy toward Iran during the
administrations of Bush 41, Clinton, and early Bush 43 can be found in the virtual silence on the topic of Iran in the memoirs of key officials
in those various administrations. See, for example, Madeleine Albright, Madam Secretary (New York: Miramax Books, 2003); James A. Baker
III, The Politics of Diplomacy (New York: C.R. Putnam’s Sons, 1995); George Bush and Brent Scowcroft, A World Transformed (New York:
Alfred A. Knopf, 1998); Warren Christopher, In the Stream of History: Shaping Foreign Policy for a New Era (Stanford, CA: Stanford University
Press, 1998); Warren Christopher, Chances of a Lifetime (New York: Scribner, 2001); Bill Clinton, My Life (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2004).
Also see Condoleezza Rice, “Campaign 2000: Promoting the National Interest,” Foreign Affairs 79, no. 1 (January-February 2000]. This essay
by Rice laid out what candidate George W. Bush’s foreign policy philosophy would be if elected president. Iran received three short
paragraphs, all of which were descriptive, not prescriptive, in nature, and the subject was famously dismissed with the remark, “All in all,
changes in U.S. policy toward Iran would require changes in Iranian behavior.”
9
As one indication of this trend, after James Bill published The Eagle and the Lion: The Tragedy of American-Iranian Relations (New Haven, CT:
Yale University Press) in 1988, another major work on U.S.-Iranian relations was not published until 2004. Again, there were numerous
journal articles and opinion pieces written on the subject during the interim, but these largely concerned matters of immediate U.S.-Iranian
relations rather than efforts to reexamine the relationship as a whole and prescribe a new overarching direction. In 2004 a major task force
report was published by the Council on Foreign Relations, again signaling the willingness of the American policy community to try to begin
thinking about a new Iran strategy. See Zbigniew Brzezinski and Robert M. Gates, “Iran: Time for a New Approach,” Report, Council on
Foreign Relations, July 2004.
8

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

5

with the strength to play the spoiler in Arab-Israeli
peace negotiations and Lebanese politics but unable to mount any more of a threat than that. Indeed, many Iran experts began to see the regime
as increasingly anachronistic and likely to evolve
slowly into something more benign over time—
although it could certainly do some damage before that happened. From this perspective, there
seemed to be little need for a dramatically new
American strategic approach to deal with Iran.10
However, in 2002-2004, Iran’s position seemed to
reverse itself. The International Atomic Energy
Agency confirmed the revelations of Iranian oppositionists that Tehran’s nuclear program was
far more advanced, and closer to being able to
produce nuclear weapons, than had previously
been known. At the same time, the United States
overthrew the Taliban’s regime in Afghanistan
and Saddam Husayn’s regime in Iraq—thereby
eliminating Iran’s two greatest regional security
threats. Washington’s catastrophic mishandling
of the reconstruction of both of those countries
bogged down the United States—militarily, politically, and economically—and greatly hampered
the Bush Administration’s ability to deal with Iran
or other regional actors looking to challenge the
status quo. Worse still, because Tehran wielded
considerable influence with armed groups in both
countries, it could threaten vital American interests in Iraq and Afghanistan if it chose to do so
and was able to contribute to the military and political problems of the United States in both. Compounding these vulnerabilities, the Bush Administration botched political developments in both
Lebanon and the Palestinian territories, causing
new civil strife in each. Perhaps most damaging,

10

6

it did not look to quell the 2006 Israel-Hizballah
or the 2008-2009 Israel-Hamas conflicts, both of
which produced results that were widely seen as
victories for key Iranian allies. Moreover, destabilizing spillover effects from Iraq, Lebanon, the
Palestinian territories, and Afghanistan incited
internal unrest in a number of countries around
the region, leaving many of America’s staunchest
allies (and Iran’s worst foes) feeling shaken and
vulnerable. By 2005-2006 the United States appeared weak and in retreat all across the region,
whereas Iran seemed to be leading a new rejectionist coalition that threatened to transform the
Middle East’s strategic landscape.
This threat, or the impression of such a threat,
shocked the American leadership and forced
Washington—both the Bush Administration and
the wider policy community—to begin thinking
about Iran in ways it had not in the past. In particular, the sense of a strategic threat from Iran,
even among those who believed that it was being
exaggerated by others, meant that simply trying
to ignore Iran or merely reacting to its latest actions was no longer sufficient. Instead, the United
States had to adopt a new strategy intended to
eliminate, ameliorate, or contain this threat.

Building a Better Iran Policy
Since this realization, there has been no shortage
of books and articles advocating particular policy positions toward Iran. Unfortunately, these
pieces have often added more heat than light to
the debate over how the United States should
handle the many problems presented by Iran. As
a result, policy positions are routinely dismissed

See, for instance, Geneive Abdo and Jonathan Lyons, Answering Only to God: Faith and Freedom in Twenty-First Century Iran (New York:
Henry Holt, 2003); Jahangir Amuzegar, “Iran’s Future: Civil Society or Civil Unrest,” Middle East Policy 7, no. 1 (October 1999): 86-101;
Daniel Byman et al., Iran’s Security Policy; Afshin Molavi, Persian Pilgrimages: Journeys across Iran (New York: W.W. Norton, 2002); Elaine
Sciolino, Persian Mirrors: The Elusive Face of Iran (New York: Free Press, 2000); Suzanne Maloney, “Elections in Iran: A New Majlis and a
Mandate for Reform,” Middle East Policy7, no. 3 (June 2000): pp. 59-66; Robin Wright, The Last Great Revolution: Turmoil and
Transformation in Iran (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2000).

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

by partisans of other approaches as being unworthy even of consideration. The right sneers at the
idea of engaging with Iran as “appeasement,” and
the left clamors for the U.S. government to abjure
all resort to force under any circumstance. Even
in the muddled middle, there is confusion regarding the priority that should be given to negotiations versus containment, and what mix of incentives and disincentives is appropriate to coerce
or persuade Tehran. That confusion has arisen in
part from proponents’ unwillingness to take their
analyses deeper than sloganeering and in part
from deliberate efforts to obfuscate the real costs
and risks involved in virtually every policy toward Iran. Moreover, in recent years, the debate
has increasingly focused on the narrow question
of Iran’s nuclear weapons program (admittedly
a critical concern), frequently losing sight of the
wider range of American differences with Iran.
The central purpose of this monograph is to try
to present the most important policy options
available to the United States to craft a new strategy toward Iran, and to do so in a dispassionate,
objective fashion. We have attempted to portray
each option in its naked glory, without the gloss
of advocacy. Each of us believes that some of the
options are better than others, but we all recognize that none are perfect and all have more risks
and costs than guaranteed benefits. We have also
sought to present them in a similar format to try
to highlight the differences among them. One of
the many failings of the current Iran debate is
that proponents of different perspectives are often arguing about apples and oranges—comparing policies meant to achieve very different goals
as if they were meant to achieve the same ends,
or starting from assumptions as if everyone were
in complete agreement about these assumptions.
Part of the problem is that there is no national
consensus, and one of President Obama’s tasks in
forging a new strategy toward Iran will be to build
such a consensus or at least achieve a national tolerance for his preferred course.

We argue that at least nine discrete approaches
to Iran have emerged in the public debate, and it
is these nine options that we treat in this study.
These nine differ in a variety of ways: not simply
in that they would employ different policy instruments but also because they often seek to achieve
different goals. These differences reflect divergent
assumptions about Iran, about the international
community, and about how best to prioritize and
secure American interests regarding Iran. For instance, the debate between those who favor one of
the diplomatic options and those who favor some
form of regime change is not just about which
would be the best way to head off the Iranian nuclear program; it is also about whether the United
States should be willing to accept the Islamic Republic at all.
We have further grouped these nine options into
four “bundles” reflecting the similarities among
several of them. Part I of the monograph treats
the two diplomatic options. It begins by examining the policy option that the Obama Administration has already announced will be its approach
to Iran, a policy we have dubbed one of “Persuasion,” by which the United States would employ
positive and negative incentives to convince Iran
to give up its problematic behavior. Because this
policy is not guaranteed to succeed, and because
many Americans may disagree with the administration’s approach, we go on to address a much
wider range of alternative strategies, beginning
with another diplomatic option, one of pure
“Engagement,” that would junk all of the sanctions and focus instead on accommodation and
reassurance in an attempt to persuade Tehran to
mend its ways. Part II looks at the various military
options—a full-scale invasion, a more limited air
campaign to destroy Iran’s nuclear program, and
allowing Israel to mount its own airstrike against
the same. Regime change is the focus of Part III,
in all of its different variants: attempting to trigger a popular revolution, supporting an insurgency (ethnic or political) against the regime, and

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

7

aiding a military coup. Finally, Part IV examines
the idea of moving directly to a policy of Containment of Iran, in which the United States would
attempt to deter Iran from trying to wield a future
nuclear arsenal while hindering its ability to cause
trouble in the Middle East and Central Asia.

Nine Bad Options
Most readers are likely to conclude that all nine
of the options presented in this monograph are
riddled with costs, complications, risks, and low
likelihoods of success. Unfortunately, the available options reflect the difficulties facing the
United States when it comes to Iran, rather than a
paucity of thinking on the subject. Perhaps some
new Kennan or Kissinger will emerge to reveal
the answer to America’s Persian dilemma, but it
seems unlikely. Washington is probably limited to
variations of the nine approaches considered in
this study, all of which involve heavy costs, significant risks, and potentially painful trade-offs.
Thus, in producing this study of the policy options toward Iran, we have tried to present the
options in a neutral fashion in one place and in
a uniform manner that allows easy comparisons
and highlights differences, and in a way that does
not attempt to soft-pedal potential risks and
costs. We have endeavored to provide readers a
full explanation of the options without the partisan distortions typical in many of the advocacy
pieces now cluttering the public debate. Moreover, by presenting them in a uniform format,
we believe the reader will be able to make comparisons across the different options and see their
differences—not just in approach but in goals,
costs and benefits, desired end states, and necessary trade-offs. Reasonable people may favor different options, because they seek different objectives, hold different priorities, or are more willing
to pay a certain price to deal with the problem of
Iran, rather than because a given option is more
likely to succeed.

8

For these reasons, each option is presented in a
fairly formulaic fashion. We start with its goal and
the general time frame in which the policy might
be expected to achieve that goal, then provide an
overview of how the policy would work, followed
by a section describing what would be required in
terms of resources and tasks to give the policy the
best chance of succeeding. We then conclude with
a rundown of the various pros and cons associated
with the policy. In this effort we received invaluable help from Henri Barkey, Geoffrey Kemp, Ellen Laipson, Abbas Milani, Mohsen Milani, Carlos
Pascual, George Perkovich, Danielle Pletka, and
Robin Wright. All of them provided comments
and criticisms that not only improved this monograph’s quality but also helped remove bias.
Although the nine different approaches we present represent discrete ways for the United States
to handle Iran, it is not the case that all of these
options are meant to stand alone. Quite to the
contrary. The best American strategy toward Iran
would doubtless combine several of these approaches into an integrated policy, in which the
different approaches would be pursued sequentially or simultaneously, and thus in a complementary fashion. However, for analytic purposes,
to most clearly illustrate the differences among
them—and to best reveal which options can best
be integrated with one another—we have chosen
to present them as separately and discretely as
possible. The concluding chapter addresses how
the different options could be combined to produce such an integrated strategy.

Strategy, Then Tactics
For the most part, we present the nine options in
a largely “bare bones” fashion, laying them out
in their broad conception without delving into
too many details. We did not sketch out invasion
routes or list all of the targets for airstrikes, nor
did we attempt to spell out how to turn Ahvazi
Arab separatists into a full-blown insurgency or

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

to detail the myriad steps that might be tried to
engage or contain Iran. That is not the purpose of
this volume. Filling in the details requires a great
deal of information about the specific circumstances in which the policy is to be implemented—information that is not necessarily available
as of this writing. Our goal was to help readers
(and perhaps members of the new administration) see the principal differences among the options more clearly, their differing objectives and
end states, their differing costs and risks, their
differing responses to the threat from Iran, and
their different acceptability to various constituencies—foreign and domestic.
Only by seeing the options in this stark form can
American policymakers accurately devise a policy
that fits with their goals, perception of the Iranian
threat, willingness to bear sacrifices, and prioritization of the problem of Iran versus those of the
economy, health care, Afghanistan, Iraq, Russia,
and everything else the United States currently
confronts. Once these questions are addressed,
the United States can adopt a policy toward Iran
that fits the bill and then adapt the basic premise of the policy to the specific circumstances of
the moment. But without a clear-eyed assessment
of how threatening Americans believe Iran to be,
what they want to achieve, and what costs they are
willing to pay to achieve that goal, the details will
not add up to a strategy. Indeed, another of the
problems Washington has had in the past is obsessing about disputes over niggling details and,
in so doing, losing sight of any coherent, overarching strategy toward Iran.

A Note on Policy Names
For nearly a decade, some scholars and experts
on Iraq have advocated a policy of “engagement”
with Iran, by which they meant that the United
States should lift all of its sanctions and end its
other efforts to constrain or punish Tehran, and
instead try to entice Iran into a purely cooperative

relationship. Their assumption has been that Iran
reacts very badly to threats, no matter how conditional, and only a patient, long-term effort to convince Iran that the United States is not a threat of
any kind will have an impact on Tehran’s behavior,
and then only by gradually taming the Islamic Republic over many years, if not decades. This policy
assumes that the United States cannot prevent
Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapons capability,
nor can Washington coerce Tehran into ceasing
its support for violent extremist groups or trying
to overturn the regional status quo in anything
like real time. Therefore, the United States simply must accept these realities in the short term,
in the hope that reduced pressure and friendship
will eventually bring about either a change in the
regime’s behavior, or even a change in the regime
itself. This is also the policy that we call “Engagement” in this monograph.
However, since the advent of the Obama Administration, other people (including many in the
media) have chosen to call the president’s new approach to Iran a policy of “engagement” because
the president has stated that he wants to begin direct negotiations with Tehran. Unfortunately, this
has the potential to create confusion when considering the various options available to the United
States, the nine options presented in this volume.
Because the Obama Administration’s starting policy toward Iran features more than just a
process of direct negotiations, and in particular
features the threat of further sanctions if Iran refuses to meet the United States halfway—a critical difference from the usual meaning of “engagement” with Iran—we have chosen to describe
this as a policy of “Persuasion” instead. Indeed,
the Obama Administration’s policy is an updated
version of an older approach that is typically referred to as one of “carrots and sticks”; however,
for reasons explained in Chapter 1, we argue that
this moniker should no longer be used to describe
this option.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

9

Setting the Scene
Formulating a new Iran strategy is not for the
faint hearted, nor is it for novices. Iran is an enormously complex country, both in terms of its
government and people. Its interaction with the
world is more complicated still. It is therefore useful for the reader to keep certain critical factors in
mind when considering the options—factors that
will likely play a role in shaping any of the options
and Iran’s responses to them.

The Iranian Threat to U.S. Interests
A crucial question that the Obama Administration must ponder is the threat that Iran poses to
U.S. interests. Not surprisingly, there is a very
wide range of opinion about the extent of that
threat. Some Americans argue that Iran does not
constitute a meaningful threat at all, whereas others contend that it is one of the most dangerous
opponents that the United States faces.
The threats from Iran to American interests generally fall under four main categories.
Support for Violent Extremist Groups. On at
least one occasion, a court of law has proven that
the Iranian government was responsible for an act
of terrorism (an assassination in a Berlin restaurant in 1992). Beyond this, there is a great deal of
intelligence information indicating that Iran has
engaged in other acts of terrorism and supports a
range of groups that engage in terrorist attacks—
including Hizballah, Palestinian Islamic Jihad,
and Hamas. Iran is widely believed to have been
behind the attacks on the U.S. Marine and French
army barracks in Beirut in 1983, Jewish and Israeli facilities in South America in the 1990s, and
the American-occupied Khobar Towers housing
complex in Saudi Arabia in 1996.
Iran generally pursues a foreign policy that seeks
to upset the status quo in the Middle East, and

10

because many Iranian leaders (probably including
Khamene’i) see the United States as their principal foe, they also seek to weaken the United States
however they can. Iran is not the only country
that has taken such a course, but unlike most,
Iran will back groups that use violence to advance
those aims, including violence against Americans
or against U.S. allies. Hizballah (in all its various
incarnations) and Hamas fall into this category
because they are not just terrorists, they are insurgents—or legitimate resistance, depending on
your point of view. There is abundant evidence
that Iran has provided arms to a wide range of
Iraqi militia and insurgent groups and that those
weapons have been used to kill Americans; there
is also evidence, albeit weaker, that Iranians are
doing the same for the Taliban and other groups
in Afghanistan who are fighting the United States
and NATO forces there.
Efforts to Subvert U.S. Allies. There is strong, but
not incontrovertible, evidence that Iran has aided
groups seeking to overthrow the governments of
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and Bahrain (and arguably
Lebanon and Israel as well) at various times. This,
too, appears to be part of Iran’s efforts to weaken
the American position in the Middle East, but it
is also probably a manifestation of the desire of
many Iranian leaders to overturn the regional
status quo for both ideological and strategic reasons. To the extent that the United States sees it
in its interest to have allies in the Gulf, an Iranian
threat to those governments constitutes a threat
to American interests.
Efforts to Block an Arab-Israeli Peace Agreement. Many Americans—and certainly every
U.S. administration since Nixon—believe that
conflict between Israel and the Arabs threatens
American interests because of its potential to
draw in other countries (including great powers),
escalate to nuclear weapons use, overturn friendly
governments, cause chaos and civil strife, and affect Middle Eastern oil exports. Although some

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

individual Iranian leaders have bravely stated that
they would accept any peace with Israel that is acceptable to the Palestinians themselves (and presumably the Lebanese and Syrians), Tehran has
mostly opposed peace between Arabs and Israelis, especially peace efforts brokered by the United
States. There is some evidence that Iran may have
even encouraged (perhaps even ordered) various
groups to mount attacks that have derailed peacemaking efforts. Thus many Americans perceive
Iran’s efforts to prevent Arab-Israeli peacemaking
as an indirect threat to the United States as well.
Development of Weapons of Mass Destruction.
When asked about the threat from Iran, most
Americans would probably start with its drive to
acquire a nuclear enrichment capability, which
is widely believed to be intended to give Tehran
the capability to build nuclear weapons. However,
the threat itself actually consists of many parts,
only one or two of which derive from the actual
possession of the weapons themselves. The other
parts of this threat instead derive from fears regarding how Iran’s development of nuclear weapons (or just the capability to make nuclear weapons) might heighten the other threats that Iran
potentially poses to the United States.
The direct threat from Iranian possession of one
or more nuclear weapons stems from the possibility that Iran would acquire a nuclear weapon
and use it against the United States (either right
away or at a time of crisis). Because the American
nuclear arsenal is vastly more powerful than Iran’s
and therefore American retaliation would be utterly devastating, Tehran would only do so either
if its rulers were irrational or they believed that
doing so was the only way to save their own lives
or the regime.11 The rationality of various Iranian

11

leaders is hotly debated, but American policymakers simply do not have the information that
would allow them to make a definitive judgment
one way or another. Most of Iran’s foreign policy
decisionmaking since the fall of the Shah could
probably be characterized as “aggressive but not
reckless,” but Washington cannot categorically
rule out the possibility that there are truly insane
or ideologically possessed Iranian leaders who
would attempt far worse if they were ever in a position to do so.
Most other U.S. fears about Iranian weapons of
mass destruction stem from concerns about how
possession of such capabilities, and particularly a
nuclear arsenal or the ability to build one, could
exacerbate the other threats Iran poses to the
United States. For instance, some Americans fear
that Iran might give nuclear weapons to terrorists.
While there are strong arguments as to why Tehran probably would not do so, this, too, cannot
be ruled out, and the consequences if it did come
to pass could be truly catastrophic. Another possibility is that Iran would develop nuclear weapons and then use them against Israel or another
U.S. ally, like Saudi Arabia—which stands as the
great champion of Sunni Islam, opposing Iran as
the champion of Shi’ah Islam. Because the United
States has implicitly extended its nuclear umbrella
over the Saudis, and because Israel could retaliate almost as massively against Iran as the United
States could, this, too, is only likely in circumstances where Iran’s leaders are irrational or face
their own demise.
For many Americans, a more likely (if somewhat
less catastrophic) threat in Iran’s acquisition of
a nuclear weapons capability is that Iran will be
emboldened in its support of terrorism, violent

Certainly, there are Americans who believe that some Iranian leaders are irrational—in particular, that they subscribe to a millenarian vision
of the world in which they must take apocalyptic actions to fulfill God’s plan. However, most experts on Iran are doubtful of this prospect or,
more important, that such zealotry would guide Iranian actions.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

11

militant groups, efforts to subvert American allies, and efforts to overturn the Middle Eastern
status quo. In other words, once Iran has a nuclear capability of some kind, Tehran will believe
that it is safe from retaliation by the United States,
Israel, or any other country, and so it will pursue
a wide variety of aggressive actions with far fewer
restraints than in the past—which would likely
lead to various crises, including confrontation
with the United States. The acquisition of nuclear weapons or a nuclear weapons capability has
made some countries behave more responsibly
(China and eventually Russia), but in other cases,
it has either not changed their behavior appreciably (North Korea, South Africa, and arguably
India) or has made them more aggressive (Russia
under Khrushchev and Pakistan). Here the concern is not so much that Iranian leaders would
act irrationally, but simply that they would become even more aggressive, and would overstep
and miscalculate. Over the past 30 years, there
is no question that, whatever their intentions,
Iranian leaders have acted aggressively (at least
for periods of time) and have found themselves
in extremely dangerous positions that they did
not envision when they first set out. A nuclear
capability would vastly increase the potential
ramifications of this kind of behavior for Iran, its
neighbors, and potentially the United States. As
Americans learned during the Cold War, crises
between two nuclear armed states are extraordinarily dangerous events and should be avoided if
at all possible.

Threats and Options
To a very great extent, fashioning a new strategy
toward Iran should be driven by Americans’ perception of the threat that Iran poses. American
willingness to tolerate the threat posed by Iran
must be weighed against the price of eliminating the threat. The less Americans feel threatened
by Iran, the less they should be willing to pay to
eliminate the threat; and the more threatened

12

Americans feel, the more they should be willing
to give to eliminate it.
Indeed, one reason for the wide divergences among
Americans on Iran policy is that some find Iran
far more threatening to U.S. interests than do others. If one believes that Iran’s leaders are irrational
or ideologically blinded to the point where they
would use a nuclear weapon if they possessed one,
then such a level of concern would likely cause one
to support the most extreme options. This is not
to say that one should be unwilling to try one or
more of the diplomatic or regime change options
first, or even try airstrikes before going all in. But
if these efforts fail, such a perception of threat may
well lead to the conclusion that the costs of an invasion are more palatable than the risk that Iran
will employ a future nuclear arsenal.
To some extent, the converse is also true: that
one’s devotion to a particular option typically reveals (at least it should reveal) one’s perception
of the threat from Iran. Those who fervently embrace the diplomatic options but refuse to countenance any of the military or regime change options are implicitly declaring that while they may
not want to see Iran acquire a nuclear capability,
they are not so concerned about it that they would
be willing to endure the costs and risks associated
with covert action, airstrikes, or an invasion. Even
the most optimistic experts recognize that it will
be difficult to convince Iran to give up its nuclear
program through diplomacy alone—whether by
engagement, inducements, sanctions, or some
combination—and so stopping at diplomacy
means leaving considerable probability that Iran’s
nuclear program will not be stopped.

The View from Tehran
The Iranian political system is one of the most
complex, Byzantine, fragmented, and opaque
on earth. Consequently, summarizing even just
those elements relevant to a consideration of U.S.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

policy options toward Iran is a daunting task, one
that requires a tremendous amount of generalization and superficiality. Nevertheless, it is important to remember that achieving America’s goals
with Iran will not be a unilateral exercise: the Iranians get a vote, too. Ultimately, success will depend on how Iran reacts to U.S. policy initiatives,
how Washington responds to Tehran’s moves, and
how each side feels about the other’s subsequent
actions down the road. For this reason, it is useful
to have at least a thumbnail sketch of some key
features of the Iranian political scene, and how
Iranians see the United States.
It is always dangerous to try to generalize about
Iranian opinion because, more than in most
countries, Iran’s people and its establishment
tend to have widely divergent views on almost
any issue imaginable. But from the broadest aperture, Iran seems to see itself as simultaneously
very strong and successful, and very weak and
troubled. To some extent, which one an Iranian
tends to emphasize often reflects his or her primary concerns.
In the international arena, many Iranians see
themselves as quite strong and are proud of having made important gains. This is certainly the
case for Iran’s radical hard-line leadership, such as
President Ahmadinejad and the commanders of
the Revolutionary Guards, who see Iran’s efforts to
put together a rejectionist front against the United
States and its allies as having made great progress
in recent years. Iran’s two most immediate threats,
Saddam Husayn’s regime in Iraq and the Taliban
regime in Afghanistan, are gone, and the U.S.
military is bogged down in both places, limiting
its ability to threaten Iran. The hard-liners perceive the military clashes of Hizballah and Hamas
against Israel as having redounded to Iran’s benefit
and play up the popularity of Ahmadinejad—and
Iran’s allies, Hassan Nasrallah of Hizballah and
Khalid Meshal of Hamas—among the Arab populace as further signs of Iran’s strength.

Those Iranians whose sight is set more inward tend
to paint a different picture. The Iranian economy
is a mess, with both inflation and unemployment
approaching 30 percent. Iran remains completely
dependent on oil exports for its economic livelihood, but the low price of oil and projections of
dramatic declines in Iranian oil production (a
product of mismanagement and the inability to
secure Western technology because of the sanctions) are drastically curtailing Tehran’s principal revenues. Iran’s oil woes make the impact of
both rampant corruption and the international
sanctions—formal and informal, multilateral and
unilateral—far worse than it already was. Nor do
most Iranians see a remedy in their political system. The regime tightly circumscribes both who
may rule and what actions they may take. In 1997
Iranians elected Mohammed Khatami president
because he espoused the Left’s vision of far-reaching change. However, Khatami failed to bring
about the change that Iranians sought, so in 2005
they went to the polls and elected Ahmadinejad
president, believing that he would deliver the
Right’s version of far-reaching change, at least in
terms of extensive economic reforms and an end
to corruption. He, too, has failed and has actually
made the economic problems far worse.
Iran’s economic woes, and the vulnerability to external pressure that they create, have gone so far
as to push its political leadership to consider engaging the United States directly in ways it never
had in the past. Statements by a variety of Iranian
leaders, including even Ahmadinejad, suggest
that Iran would be willing to engage with representatives of the Obama Administration directly.
It should be noted that Iranian officials met with
members of the Bush 43 Administration, both covertly during 2001-2003 to coordinate policy on
Afghanistan and overtly in 2007-2008 to discuss
Iraq. Thus the willingness to meet is not new, but
what does seem to be is a willingness to discuss
the U.S.-Iranian relationship itself rather than the
narrow mechanics of a particular mutual interest.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

13

All that said, it appears that Iran’s leadership has
so far only made a tactical decision to discuss
these issues with the United States, but it has not
yet made the strategic decision to compromise on
the issues that matter to the United States—such
as the Iranian nuclear program and support for
violent extremist groups. To some extent, this is
probably because Tehran is not sure what America’s goals and intentions are, and they do not
know what Washington is offering (or threatening). Whatever else is going on, it is highly likely
that the Iranians will not cross that bridge until
they have entered into a process of negotiations
and can see what is on offer. It is worth keeping in
mind that “bazaar”— market—is a word of Iranian origin. And in Iran, the bazaar is always open.
Beyond this, however, Tehran’s approach almost
certainly reflects the nature of politics in Iran today. As we have noted, the Iranian polity is riven
with factions, and alliances coalesce and splinter
with stunning regularity and alacrity, all of which
makes it extremely difficult to hold together
a broad political coalition capable of effecting
meaningful change over time. Moreover, many
key political figures align on opposite ends of the
political spectrum on crucial issues. The hardliners tend to favor a patronage approach to the
economy, view improved relations with the United States as anathema, and promote Iran’s nuclear
program as an economic/diplomatic/security
panacea. Iran’s reformists as well as its more pragmatic figures favor privatization of the economy
and view better relations with the United States
as critical to securing the trade, aid, and investment that the Iranian economy desperately needs;
and while they would like to retain at least some
aspects of the nuclear program, they have shown
a much greater willingness to accept limits on it
in return for better international economic and
diplomatic relations. In the midst of all of this sits
‘Ali Khamene’i, Iran’s supreme leader, who is by
far the most powerful figure in the Iranian system
but has preferred to rule by balancing all of Iran’s

14

fractious factions. Khamene’i seems to be deeply
suspicious of the United States, and he may share
the ideological sympathies of the hard-liners, but
he also seems to recognize the economic realities
emphasized by the pragmatists. This has placed
him on the horns of a dilemma, and his tendency
has been to avoid dramatic decisions in favor of
one camp or another so as to preserve the status
quo in the hope that this will prevent a dangerous
internal political schism without doing too much
harm to either Iran’s economy or security. It is the
sum of all of these parts that creates a system that
most Iranians describe as operating according to
the laws of inertia: a body at rest will remain at rest
unless acted on by an outside force, and a body in
motion will remain in motion unless acted on by
an outside force. In other words, the complexity
and rivalries of the Iranian system predispose it
to try to keep doing what it has been, and thus
dramatic change requires enormous effort. Given
that America’s goal is to change at least Iran’s behavior, if not its capabilities or even the very nature of its regime, there is a very high threshold
for success.

The International Scene
Although it sometimes feels as if the United States
and Iran exist in a vacuum, they do not. Because
the rivalry has played out in the economically vital
Persian Gulf region, and because both sides have
attempted to enlist support from a wide array of
foreign powers, nearly everything about American policy toward Iran involves the participation
of other countries. Many of the policy options
presented in this volume are impossible without
the full-throated support of dozens of other countries. Even those options that attempt to rely solely on the unilateral abilities of the United States
would greatly benefit from foreign support—and
could be badly undercut if key countries chose
to actively back Iran. Consequently, the perspectives of other nations regarding Iran and the U.S.Iranian confrontation are also important factors

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

for Washington to consider when devising a new
strategy toward Iran.
Once again, because the problems between Iran
and the United States touch on numerous different aspects of the foreign, economic, and security policies of many nations, simply describing
all of the potentially relevant points about every
other country and how it might react to various
American strategies toward Iran would fill many
volumes. Nevertheless, it is useful for the reader
to bear the basic points in mind when weighing
the various options addressed in this monograph.
Iran’s Neighbors. None of the countries of the
Middle East or South Asia are enthusiastic about
the prospect of Tehran acquiring the ability to
build nuclear weapons, let alone an actual arsenal. Nevertheless, their reactions have tended to
range from studied indifference (Pakistan, India)
to deliberate silence (Iraq, Afghanistan, Armenia)
to private panic (Turkey, Saudi Arabia, and the
other Gulf states). Yet their willingness to cooperate with the United States does not always correlate with either their public or private positions.
The states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC)
are both the most concerned and potentially the
most influential American allies in the region. In
public, they have tended to say little, although
they have announced plans to match Iran’s drive
for a nuclear energy program as a lightly veiled
warning to Tehran that its continued pursuit of
nuclear enrichment could touch off a regional
arms race. The Gulf states have done relatively little to promote diplomatic efforts to sanction Tehran, to counterbalance Iranian influence in Iraq
and Afghanistan (although the Saudis have been
very active in Lebanon), or to “buy” the support
of other countries for tougher measures against
Iran. For example, a few large GCC weapons or
transportation purchases from Russian companies might go along way toward changing Moscow’s perspective on the Iranian nuclear program,

but these have not yet been forthcoming. To some
extent, the GCC’s reticence so far may have been
fallout from the ham-fisted regional actions of the
Bush 43 Administration, which so alienated the
Arab masses that it made it difficult for Arab governments to publicly associate themselves with
anything that the United States was leading. In
private, GCC rulers have left no doubt that they
do not want to see Iran develop a nuclear capability of any kind, fearing that it will encourage
Tehran to redouble its efforts to stir up the downtrodden Shi’i populations of the GCC, encourage
violent extremists in the region, and otherwise try
to subvert or overthrow the conservative monarchies of the Arabian peninsula. Nevertheless,
the GCC states have been equally clear that they
would not support an American (let alone Israeli)
military operation against Iran, which they fear
would end up creating far more problems than it
would solve.
The government of Iraq is still too fragile to be
making waves internationally or picking friends
and enemies among its neighbors. Moreover, because of Iran’s lingering influence in Iraq and the
ties of many Iraqi politicians (Shi’i and Kurdish) to
Iran, Baghdad has been wary of involving itself in
the international dispute over Iran’s nuclear program. Yet it should be noted that as evinced by the
overwhelming popular support for Prime Minister Maliki’s offensives against Iranian-backed
militias in al-Basrah, Sadr City, al-Amarah, and
elsewhere, most Iraqis retain their traditional dislike for their Persian neighbors. Few Iraqis—and
probably few of the current Iraqi leaders—would
want to live next to a powerful, aggressive Iran if
they could do anything about it. But they can’t.
While Iraq has made tremendous strides forward
from the civil war of 2005-2006, its domestic
situation remains precarious. Most Iraqi leaders
fear that the U.S.-Iranian friction might escalate
to actual conflict (overt or covert) and would be
fought out in Iraq, where Iranian agents and proxies would likely try to mount a major campaign

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

15

against the American soldiers who will remain
there until at least 2012. Thus Iraq’s greatest priority has been avoiding any dispute between Iran
and America that could escalate to fighting and
turn Iraq into their battleground. A very similar
sentiment has guided Afghan silence on the issue.
Farther afield, Israel may be the only country in
the region unhappier than the GCC about Iran’s
progress toward a nuclear weapon and what this
could mean for Iranian support of terrorists and
other violent extremist groups. Israel has been
locked in almost daily combat with Iranian allies
(Hamas, Hizballah, and the Palestinian Islamic
Jihad) for over 25 years, and Jerusalem fears that
an Iranian nuclear capability will motivate Tehran to encourage its allies to increase their attacks on Israel. Some Israelis even fear that Iran
would use nuclear weapons against them as soon
as it acquired a small arsenal—or would give the
weapons to terrorists to do so—posing an existential threat to the tiny Jewish state in the literal
sense, since a few well-placed nuclear weapons
could obliterate nearly all life in Israel. In public, many Israeli leaders have threatened to attack
Iran to prevent it from acquiring such a capability.
In private, however, they unanimously state that a
diplomatic resolution would be preferable, that a
military strike would probably only buy them two
to three years, and that they hope they will never
have to decide whether to conduct such an operation, both because of the difficulties involved and
the potential for Iranian retaliation.
Europe. At some level, European leaders seem
to agree that Iran should not be allowed to develop a nuclear weapons capability (and there is
remarkably widespread agreement among them
that Iran’s nuclear program is meant solely to acquire weapons), but they also agree that it would
be preferable not to impose harsher sanctions
on Iran and that the use of force would be disastrous. European unity dissolves beyond such
bland platitudes. In particular, different European
states take very different positions on whether it is

16

more important to prevent Iran from completing
its nuclear program or to avoid further sanctions
on Iran.
One group of European countries, led by France
and Britain, has pushed hard to impose more
stringent sanctions on Iran to convince it to halt
its nuclear activities. This group’s motivation has
been primarily the preservation of the global
non-proliferation norm and only secondarily
the preservation of stability in the Middle East.
Its argument typically has been that Iranian acquisition of nuclear weapons (and again, these
countries are convinced that this is the aim of the
Iranian nuclear program) would be the straw that
broke the camel’s back of the Non-Proliferation
Treaty and would spur numerous other countries
to acquire nuclear weapons—either to deter Iran’s
presumed arsenal or merely because there was no
longer any reason for them not to do so. These nations have pushed not only for stronger action by
the UN Security Council but even for multilateral
action by the European Union outside of the UN
process.
Another group of European countries, represented principally by Germany and a number of Mediterranean states, has tended to emphasize their
distaste for sanctioning Iran. On some occasions,
this group has argued that continuing trade with
Iran is the best way to ameliorate Iranian behavior
over time (an idea embodied in the Engagement
option; see Chapter 2). At other times, it has accepted the principle of sanctioning Iran but, when
it came to putting words into deeds, opposed all
but the mildest actual restrictions. And on still
other occasions, officials from this group have
simply acknowledged that their publics have a
philosophical aversion to sanctions and their governments are not strong enough to go against the
popular will. Whether their position is principled
or simply politically expedient, these countries
have steadfastly resisted placing further pressure
on Iran and are likely to do so in the future.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

If Iran’s nuclear program is a topic of great importance for Europe, Tehran’s involvement with
terrorists and violent militant groups, let alone
its efforts to overturn conservative Middle Eastern governments and block an Arab-Israeli peace
process, stir little European passion. Many Europeans believe that Iran’s activities in these various
areas are unhelpful, even dangerous, but they do
not seem to have the same power to galvanize
European opinion (let alone action) as much as
Tehran’s nuclear program does. This is an important area where Europe tends both to be internally
united and of a different mind than the Middle
Eastern states. Consequently, confrontational polices toward Tehran can often elicit at least some
support when they are tied to Iran’s pursuit of a
nuclear weapons capability but find little backing when meant to respond to Iranian activities
in other areas that the United States considers
alarming.
While Europe is united in its opposition to Iran’s
nuclear program (if not in the method to stop it)
and in its indifference toward Iran’s support of
militant groups, it is divided over the nature of
the Iranian regime itself. The Islamic Republic is
brutal, oppressive, repressive, intolerant, paranoid,
and prone to widespread human rights abuses. Although it follows some democratic practices (such
as relatively competitive elections), its adherence
to others—such as transparency, accountability,
the rule of law, the protection of minorities, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, freedom of
speech—ranges from questionable to nonexistent.
This morally odious behavior is irrelevant to some
European regimes and of paramount importance
to others. The Scandinavian states in particular are
staunch advocates of human rights, and for them,
the Iranian regime’s treatment of its own citizenry
is a matter of great concern.
Russia and China. It is widely believed that
Russia and China could play critical roles in a
new American strategy toward Iran. Both are

important sources of weapons for Iran, including
nuclear sales from Russia. Russia and China are
important trading partners with Iran, and Chinese businesses especially have moved into Iran
to scavenge all of the business deals that Western
firms were forced to abandon because of the sanctions. Thus, if Russia and China were to follow the
West in sanctioning Iran, Tehran’s already precarious economic situation might turn downright
perilous.
In particular, the Persuasion approach would
greatly benefit from Russian and Chinese willingness to impose harsher sanctions on Iran, and
because the Obama Administration has already
announced that it will pursue this option, Moscow and Beijing hold potential trump cards over
America’s course. If Russia and China cooperate with the United States, Iran will come under
much heavier pressure; this may or may not be
enough to convince Iran to change course, but
it certainly will give Washington reason to stick
with this policy for some time. However, if Russia and China oppose the United States (which, in
effect, would be siding with Iran), not only would
it be far more difficult for the strategy to work,
but also the United States will likely drop it much
faster and turn instead to different options that
require less international cooperation.
Both Moscow and Beijing have publicly stated
that Iran should not be allowed to develop the capability to make highly enriched uranium, which
is the key ingredient for a nuclear weapon. (The
Iranians probably already have that capability, at
least at the theoretical level.) In addition, despite
the insistence of many experts and most Iranian
officials that they would not do so, both Russia
and China agreed to refer Iran’s nuclear program
out of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA) and over to the UN Security Council.
They then proceeded to vote in favor of four Security Council resolutions against Iran enacted
under Chapter VII of the UN Charter (which

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

17

makes the resolution binding on all member
states and is the chapter under which uses of force
are authorized). Moreover, two of these resolutions included sanctions against various Iranian
individuals and entities, again something that
most experts and most Iranians never expected
Russia or China to support. Thus, over the past
five years, Russia and China have taken some very
important steps to counter Iran’s ambitions to become a nuclear power.
Yet, Russia and China have continued to do business with Iran and have not prevented or even
cautioned their own companies against doing
so. In fact, Chinese firms have aggressively attempted to expand their business in Iran. Likewise, Russia completed work on Iran’s Bushehr
research reactor, which many believe to be a front
that Tehran uses to conduct research into more
nefarious nuclear activities. Russia has also discussed selling Iran advanced S-300 surface-to-air
missile systems, which would make it more difficult for Israel and the United States to strike Iran’s
nuclear facilities. The Russians and Chinese have
steadfastly refused to approve the kind of sanctions against Tehran that could put real pressure
on its teetering economy. In other words, the
Russians and Chinese have done far less to hinder Iran than they might—or that their rhetoric
would have suggested—and a great deal to help
Iran, while also helping their own finances. Neither has shown any willingness to take Tehran to
task for its support of terrorism, opposition to an
Arab-Israeli peace, and other efforts to upset the
Middle Eastern status quo, let alone for its human
rights abuses.
Many Western experts on both countries have
explained this behavior by suggesting that Russia and China have conflicting interests when
it comes to Iran, and therefore, which side they

12

18

come down on will be determined by who is
willing to offer them the more enticing deal. Both
countries see Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons as potentially dangerous, but both see the opportunity for economic benefits from trade with
Iran. For its part, Russia is largely unconcerned by
instability in the Middle East—in fact, problems
there actually can help Russia by driving up the
price of its own oil exports. Moreover, for reasons
of pique and pride, Moscow relishes tweaking its
former superpower rival as a way of forcing Washington to pay it the respect that Russians feel they
deserve. In private, Chinese officials will bluntly
say that their strategic concern with Iran is energy
resources. The Chinese simplistically believe that
because oil is a finite resource, they must secure
access to as much of it for themselves as they can
(and so prevent others from consuming it) to ensure their continued future growth. Because Iran
is a pariah to so many countries, Tehran is willing to cut the kind of deals with Beijing that make
Chinese planners happy, in return for Chinese
diplomatic support. The Chinese have repeatedly told Americans that a precondition of greater
Chinese support for harsher sanctions against
Iran is American cooperation on energy supplies.

The Ticking Clock
The passage of time lends urgency to the need for
an effective new Iran policy. The Obama Administration may well have the last opportunity to try
many of the policy options detailed in this study.
The November 2007 National Intelligence Estimate on Iran’s nuclear program warned that it was
possible (albeit “very unlikely”) that Iran might
be able to produce enough highly enriched uranium for a nuclear weapon by 2009, although the
period 2010-2015 was a more likely time frame.12
In March 2009, Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, stated that based

National Intelligence Council, “Iran: Nuclear Intentions and Capabilities.”

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

on the findings of the IAEA, he believed that Iran
already had sufficient low-enriched uranium to
make enough fissile material for a single nuclear
warhead.13 Others have disputed that assertion,
but there is no question that Iran will soon have at
least the theoretical know-how to make a weapon
and most, possibly all, of the physical components
to do so as well.
Once Iran has acquired that capability, it may be
too dangerous for the United States to attempt
the military options and too late to employ either
the Persuasion or Engagement options to try to
convince Tehran to give up its nuclear program.
Although America’s consistent support for some
form of regime change behind the Iron Curtain

13

throughout the Cold War suggests that Washington might still be able to pursue this strategy
toward Tehran in some form, the same example
also suggests that this would have to be far more
restrained than many of its current partisans hope
for today. Thus it may well be the case that the
Obama Administration represents the last chance
for the United States to adopt an effective new
strategy toward Iran that could eliminate the need
to conduct the grand experiment of trying to see
if Americans can indeed “live” with a nuclear Iran.
With that in mind, we believe it absolutely critical
that Washington and the American people have
a clear sense of what each of the different options
entails, what it would require, and what it might
achieve before deciding which path to take.

Steven R. Hurst, “Mullen: Iran Has Fissile Materials for a Bomb,” Associated Press, March 2, 2009.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

19

Part I

Dissuading Tehran
The Diplomatic Options

F

or the new Obama Administration, dealing
with the long-standing challenges to U.S. interests and security posed by the Islamic Republic of Iran will be complicated by a range of intractable and unfortunate factors: the increasing
urgency of the timeline associated with Tehran’s
nuclear program, the adverse conditions for U.S.
influence in the region, and finally the curious,
contradictory legacy of its predecessors’ policies. While experts differ on precisely when and
how Tehran may cross the nuclear threshold, the
scope and pace of the Iranian program ensures
that this issue will rank near the top of the agenda
for President Obama’s first term. Moreover, the
administration will confront the enduring impact
of the Bush Administration’s decisions to invade
Afghanistan and Iraq, evict Syria from Lebanon
without building up a strong Lebanese government to replace it, and hold premature elections
in the Palestinian territories, all of which have expanded Iran’s influence largely at the expense of
America and its regional allies.
After nearly eight years of war in Afghanistan and
nearly six in Iraq, there are few Americans looking for another fight in the Middle East. For that
reason alone, most of the debate over what Iran
policy the Obama Administration should adopt
has focused on diplomatic options. In turn, this
debate has principally revolved around three interrelated questions:

 Can the threat (or application) of economic
and diplomatic sanctions against Iran move
the regime to acquiesce to international requests to change its behavior? Which sanctions would have the greatest likelihood of
doing so? How does the United States convince other great powers to cooperate with
such a policy?
 Is it possible to offer positive inducements—either along with or instead of the
negative incentives of the sanctions—to
convince Tehran to change its behavior?
What would be the nature of these inducements? How does the United States offer
rewards to Iran that will not be taken as a
sign of weakness and merely embolden the
regime’s hard-liners to further dig in their
heels?
 How can Washington know if Tehran is
serious about diplomacy or is merely trying to draw out a process of negotiations to
buy time until the regime has established a
nuclear fait accompli?
The differing answers to the above questions
have crystallized into at least two contending approaches toward using diplomacy as a means to
convince Iran to shed its nuclear program and
eschew its other efforts to overturn the Middle

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

21

Eastern status quo. The first is a revamped version
of the diplomatic approach that the Bush Administration mostly mishandled. It would attempt to
employ both positive and negative inducements
to persuade the Iranian leadership that changing
its behavior would be both its most rewarding
and least harmful course of action. This approach,
which we have called a strategy of Persuasion, is
the policy that the Obama Administration has
chosen for its initial foray into Iran strategy.
The second is a policy of Engagement that would
abandon sticks altogether in the belief that any

22

threats simply cause the Islamic Republic to dig
in its heels, even if doing so means cutting off its
nose to spite its face. Indeed, in its purest form, a
policy of Engagement would take a long-term approach based on the belief that by reassuring the
Iranians that their fears were baseless, integrating
them into the global economy, and helping their
people see the possibility of a better life for themselves through a cooperative relationship with the
United States and the rest of the world, Tehran
would slowly change its ways, much as China did.
These two diplomatic options are presented in the
next two chapters.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

Chapter 1

An Offer Iran Shouldn’t Refuse
Persuasion

T

o convince Iran to give up its nuclear program, the George W. Bush Administration
in 2005 adopted a diplomatic approach that employed a combination of positive inducements
and the threat of economic and diplomatic sanctions if Tehran refused to comply. By the time
Bush left office, the policy had not yet succeeded,
although it had accomplished more than many
of its critics had predicted. Many Americans
believe that this approach could be revived, revised, and made to succeed under a new administration.

Immediately after his election, President Obama
himself indicated that this would be the starting
point of his administration’s approach to Iran.14
Since then, the administration has finished its
policy review and has adopted a multifaceted version of this option.
Like all Iran policy options, this approach faces
considerable hurdles. For this option, the first
hurdle is the legacy of the Bush Administration’s
efforts and demonstrating that it failed not because of inherent flaws in the strategy, but because of poor implementation. Those who favor

14

Persuasion (sometimes infelicitously referred to
as a policy of “carrots and sticks”) believe that the
Bush Administration hamstrung the process by
combining it with elements of other policy options—particularly regime change—that ran at
cross-purposes. It also eschewed key diplomatic
bargains that might have secured greater international support and refused to put up meaningful
positive incentives that could have had a greater
impact on the actions of both Tehran and the rest
of the international community.
Persuasion also requires building a broad international commitment to a set of powerful sanctions
on Iran to punish it for noncompliance at a time
when many countries do not see the threat from
Iran as a priority, and some have reason to oppose
such treatment. Moreover, in the final analysis,
this option (and the Engagement option as well)
rests on the willingness and ability of the leaders
of Iran to sort out their politics in such a way that
they agree to comply with the international community. Iran’s habitual pugnacity toward external
pressure and the Byzantine internal politics of the
clerical regime mean that any such effort inevitably begins with a hard row to hoe.

Interview with President-elect Barack Obama, Meet the Press, NBC, December 7, 2008, available at <http://www.msnbc.msn.com/
id/28097635>, downloaded on January 19, 2009.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

23

Goal
This policy is intended to convince the government of Iran to change its behavior on issues of
critical importance to the United States. It is not
intended to try to change the government of Iran.
Shortly after taking office, President Obama attempted to underline this point in his Nowruz
(Iranian New Year) message to the people of Iran
on March 19, 2009, in which he assured Iranians
that “The United States wants the Islamic Republic
of Iran to take its rightful place in the community
of nations.”15 (Emphasis added.) In other words,
the president was signaling that he was ready to
accept the current Iranian regime, not merely the
Iranian people, back into the international community if the regime were willing to work constructively with the United States and the rest of
the international community.
A key question that the new U.S. administration
will have to address regarding the goals of the Persuasion approach toward Iran is whether to focus
only on convincing Iran to cease its nuclear program or also to insist that Iran cease its support
for terrorism and other anti-status-quo activities (particularly its efforts to hinder Arab-Israeli
peacemaking).
Although there are risks in Iran’s mere possession
of a nuclear weapons-making capability, the most
likely threat is that once Iran is believed to have
such a capability, it will pursue its regional antistatus-quo agenda more aggressively than in the
past. Specifically, it may provide greater support
to terrorist groups and Palestinian rejectionists, it
may again attempt to subvert conservative Arab
regimes, it may provide arms to countries and
non-state actors fighting the United States and its
allies, and it may pursue a range of other actions

15

24

all intended to undermine the American position,
topple or “Finlandize” unfriendly governments,
and otherwise reorder the region more to its own
liking. Even with a nuclear capability, Tehran may
still not achieve these aims, but a greater willingness to try will nevertheless result in more violence, mayhem, radicalism, and crises in a region
that does not need any more.
In other words, a critical threat behind Iran’s pursuit of a nuclear weapons capability is that it will
intensify Iran’s anti-status-quo activities, which
many Americans would argue should necessitate
an effort not merely to convince Tehran to halt its
nuclear program but also its support for violent
extremist groups and other anti-status-quo activities. Indeed, American sanctions on Iran (at least
prior to 2001) were always explicitly intended to
convince the Iranians to give up all of these problematic behaviors, not merely their nuclear program. As such, this policy would mirror the goals
of the successful American policy toward Qadhafi’s Libya, which is often seen as a model for how
a similar approach should be applied to Iran.

The American Dilemma
There is a critical complication in expanding the
policy goals to encompass Iranian behavior beyond its nuclear program: it could undermine the
international support that is the sine qua non of the
option. There is broad agreement, at least in principle, among most of the international community,
and certainly all of the great powers, on the need
to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapons
capability. This often breaks down in practice, but
it still provides an important foundation that the
United States can build upon to pursue this part of
its policy. However, far fewer states are troubled by
Iran’s destabilizing activities in the region or even

 hite House, “Videotaped Remarks by the President in Celebration of Nowruz,” March 19, 2009, available at <http://www.whitehouse.gov/
W
the_press_office/VIDEOTAPED-REMARKS-BY-THE-PRESIDENT-IN-CELEBRATION-OF-NOWRUZ/>, downloaded on April 6, 2009.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

its support for terrorist groups. Certainly few believe these actions troublesome enough to merit
the kind of harsh sanctions that may be needed to
pressure Tehran to abandon them.
Consequently, focusing purely on the nuclear
program would be the surest path toward building a wide and strong international consensus
against Iran, but this might not be sufficient from
the American perspective to secure U.S. needs
regarding Iranian behavior. Moreover, many
Americans may conclude that if the United States
is going to provide Iran with the kind of major
benefits that the Iranians will no doubt demand
to halt their nuclear program, Washington ought
to get more from Tehran in return. On the other
hand, if Washington insists on including Iranian
misbehavior beyond its nuclear program, it will
be more difficult to secure the kind of broad international commitment to impose harsh penalties
on Iran for failure to comply that probably will be
necessary for the policy to succeed.

Time Frame
The Persuasion approach holds out the potential
to achieve its goals relatively quickly—conceivably
in a matter of months—although a time frame of
several years seems more likely. At least in theory,
the United States and its allies might agree very
quickly on a package of benefits to offer Tehran, as
well as a series of new penalties to impose on Iran
if it refused the deal. Likewise, Iran might quickly
decide that the deal is a good one and accept it, and
then things would move forward relatively quickly. The reality, however, is that both processes are
likely to involve very complicated internal political and external diplomatic negotiations, even if
they are successful. Consequently, it seems unrealistic to expect this approach to produce actual
success in less than a few years. However, if there
are early indications of progress on both sides, the
expectation of success may produce many positive
ripples long before a deal is signed. For instance,

should the Iranians conclude that they want to
accept whatever the international community is
offering, they may decide to unilaterally shift assets away from their nuclear program so as not to
waste high-value resources on a program that is
soon to be shut down.
One critical challenge to a Persuasion approach
that relies on positive and negative incentives to
redirect Iran on key issues is that it will be extremely difficult to know when the policy has
failed. The Iranian regime, as a collective entity,
is unlikely to declare that it will never agree to
any offer from the international community or
negotiate with the United States (although some
individual Iranian leaders may claim as much).
Tehran seems to understand that flat-out refusals, like those preferred by President Ahmadinejad, win Tehran nothing and so antagonize other
nations that they build support for further sanctions. Consequently, even if the regime does decide to reject any new offer from the international
community, it probably will feign interest and
simply try to prolong the negotiations. Indeed, a
number of Iranian leaders have already signaled
a willingness to sit down with the United States
and discuss the differences between us, but so far
this appears to reflect a tactical decision to talk
to Washington, not a strategic decision to compromise. Moreover, many Iranians will likely calculate that German, Russian, Chinese, and other
foreign officials will use any hint of Iranian flexibility to argue against the imposition of further
sanctions, and so even if Tehran has no intention
of agreeing to compromise, it will keep tossing
out hints that it will to buttress the arguments of
those desperate to avoid additional sanctions.
Because it may be impossible for the international community to recognize when this policy
has failed, it will be critical to place clear time
restrictions on the negotiations and require Iran
to take positive, discernible steps to demonstrate
that it is not merely attempting to prolong these

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

25

negotiations to ward off further sanctions. (We
return to this matter later in this chapter to sketch
out what such mechanisms might entail.)

Overview of the Policy
The core concept of the Persuasion approach remains the idea of simultaneously offering Iran
a series of compelling rewards for giving up its
nuclear program (and possibly ceasing its other
deleterious behavior as well) and threatening to
impose harsh penalties on Iran for refusing to
do so. In essence, it means offering Iran a “deal,”
but one that also contains an implicit ultimatum:
change your ways and you will be rewarded; don’t
and you will be punished.
Because, after three decades of sanctions, the
United States has virtually no ties to Iran it could
threaten to cut, the pressure on Iran must come
principally from other members of the international community—particularly Iran’s leading
trade partners in Europe, Russia, China, India,
and elsewhere.16 This makes the Persuasion option wholly dependent on international cooperation to make it work. It is simply not possible for
the United States to pursue this policy unilaterally. For this reason, the UN Security Council is
the ideal mechanism through which to pursue
the policy, and the Bush Administration did enjoy
some important successes there. It is less feasible
but still possible to pursue the strategy outside the
United Nations, and the Bush Administration was
able to secure some modest cooperation from the
European Union and America’s Asian trade partners outside of the UN framework.
Because the Bush Administration did eventually
adopt a version of this policy, the key question

16

26

that supporters of a Persuasion approach—
including the Obama Administration now that it
has opted for this strategy—must answer is what
can be done differently so that a new version can
succeed where the last one failed? The heart of
the critique of the Bush Administration’s efforts is
that it was never willing to offer Iran meaningful
positive inducements, both because many administration hard-liners rejected on principle the idea
of any “concessions,” and because the administration concurrently pursued a limited policy of regime change, which militated against taking any
steps that could alleviate Iranian problems.
This failure to address the inherent contradictions
in the Bush Administration’s approach to Persuasion undermined its incentives-based approach
in two ways. First, it meant that Iranians themselves did not believe that they were getting that
much for giving up their nuclear program (let
alone reversing their foreign policy more generally). Certainly, any potential benefits were not
ammunition enough for those Iranians interested
in their economic fortunes to win the policy fight
with hard-liners determined to preserve the nuclear program.
Second, the meager benefits the Bush Administration was willing to offer failed to impress European and East Asian publics. American allies in
Europe and East Asia are critical to an approach
that relies heavily on sanctions both because they
have typically had extensive trade relationships
with Iran and because they can furnish exactly
the kinds of capital, technology, and markets that
Tehran needs to address its economic problems.
Moreover, if the United States is unable to secure
the cooperation of its closest allies, it is hard to
imagine that it could win over Russia, China,

One area in which the Bush 43 Administration excelled was in finding creative new methods of imposing unilateral sanctions on Iran by
targeting its links to international financial networks. There are still ties in this area that the United States could cut and that would inflict
real pain on Iran—although they also could spark conflict with other nations. Consequently, though such unilateral actions are possible and
would have a real impact, it is still the case that having European, East Asian, and South Asian countries adopt the kind of sanctions that the
U.S. invoked in the 1990s would have a far greater impact on the Iranian economy.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

India, and other countries with different agendas.
If the Europeans and Japanese are on board with
the United States, these other countries must take
notice; if the United States stands alone, they can
ignore us.
The populations of many U.S. allies were suspicious of the Bush Administration, believing (not
incorrectly) that it remained committed to regime change and was simply attempting to give
an offer to Tehran that it would never accept so
that Washington could then use an Iranian rejection as justification for either implementing crippling sanctions or moving to war. In addition,
it was generally the case that the publics of the
European and East Asian democracies were only
willing to sanction Iran for refusing to comply if
they believed that Tehran had been offered a deal
that was so good that only a regime determined
to acquire nuclear weapons would refuse. Because
the Bush Administration’s incentives were never
big enough to satisfy the European and East Asian
concerns, few of these governments were willing to consider more than modest punishments
against Tehran for refusing the offer.
At this point, Iran remains very much on the
wrong track, pushing hard to acquire an enrichment capability, heedless of the international consensus against it. Within the scope of the Persuasion approach, there is no question that what is
most needed are new, much harsher sanctions to
convince Iran to stop, reconsider, and hopefully
change course. Paradoxically, however, the only
way that the United States is likely to secure international support for new sanctions is if it offers up
much greater rewards to Iran for doing the right
thing.

Upping the Ante
The incentives offered to Iran will need to be determined through a process of negotiation with
both Iran and America’s allies and partners in the

wider international community. In many cases,
these incentives are likely to be highly complex.
Consequently, only the broad contours can be
sketched out. In all probability, these benefits will
fall into four broad categories: nuclear energy
and technology, economic inducements, security
guarantees, and political incentives.
Nuclear Energy and Technology
On the nuclear front, the previous offers to Iran
have included attractive terms to allow Iran to
build light-water reactors to generate power and
arrangements for Iran to participate in an international program to master the technology of
enrichment. Light-water reactors can be more
easily monitored, are harder to convert quickly to
military purposes, and would be under arrangements whereby spent fuel would be returned
to the providing country so that it could not be
employed for bomb making. These terms would
have to remain as part of a new offer: since Iran
has repeatedly claimed that it wants only technology and energy from its nuclear program, Tehran
would have to be provided with the opportunity
to meet these needs regardless of whether these
motives are genuine.
The much thornier question is whether the international community should be willing to allow
Iranians a limited enrichment capability within
their own country. If this is allowed, it will leave
the Iranians a fairly rapid “breakout capability”—meaning that Tehran could switch over to a
military program and begin manufacturing fissile
material for nuclear weapons fairly quickly. For
these reasons, a number of European countries
have stated categorically that they will never agree
to any deal with Tehran that allows it to retain
such a capacity. On the other hand, the Iranian regime has steadfastly rejected any demand to halt
its program short of acquiring a complete enrichment capability and has repeatedly told its people
that acquiring this capability is absolutely vital to
their future prosperity. Consequently, it may not

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

27

be possible to reach a deal with Iran that does not
allow it to claim that it retained an enrichment
capability of some kind.
When the United States and its international
partners meet to discuss this particular issue, a
key consideration should be the extent, conditions, and intrusiveness of any inspections and
monitoring regime that Iran would have to accept
as part of the deal. Simply put, the more intrusive
and comprehensive the inspections regime, the
more willing the international community ought
to be to compromise on this issue. Nevertheless,
because the potential for a breakout capability
is so worrisome, the international community
should insist on an Iraq-style inspections regime
with a dedicated organization (perhaps within the
IAEA, but definitely with a separate, much larger
staff and budget) to ensure that the monitoring
of an Iranian enrichment program remains active
and vigilant.
Economic Inducements
Especially given the fragile state of Iran’s economy, economic inducements are likely to be both
the most straightforward and most important
element of a new international overture to Iran.
Under the Bush Administration, Tehran was
offered membership in the World Trade Organization, the lifting of international sanctions
(most of which exert only modest pressure on
the Iranian economy), and the resumption of
its presanctions trade with Europe and Japan.
These were not enough to convince Iran to take
the deal.

28

 Th
 e lifting of not only international sanctions but unilateral sanctions against Iran
as well, particularly the comprehensive
unilateral sanctions imposed by the United
States.
 A universal settlement of all claims between
Iran and the United States (which include
monies owed for some Iranian arms purchases, the freezing of assets, and other
matters that the Iranians believe constitute
a sizable amount of money.)
 The provision of positive inducements for
expanded international trade and investment in Iran, including trade credits and
investment guarantees for foreign firms
putting capital into Iran.
 D
 evelopment assistance for Iranian agriculture, infrastructure, education, energy,
and environmental modernization.
The lifting of American unilateral sanctions
against Iran—which the Bush Administration
was never willing to offer explicitly because of its
attachment to regime change—could have a major impact on Iranian thinking because the average Iranian and the regime’s chief economic officials ardently desire it.

Consequently, a new strategy based on the Persuasion approach will have to hold out the promise of much greater economic rewards. These
should include:

Security Guarantees
Although Tehran denies it in public, the international community assumes that Iran’s pursuit of a
nuclear enrichment capability is meant, at least in
part, to deter attacks against Iran. Consequently,
another set of positive incentives that the international community will likely have to offer are
guarantees for the security of the country and its
regime.

 The prospect of support from other international financial institutions such as the
World Bank.

Many Americans have suggested that the United
States pledge not to attack Iran, as President John
F. Kennedy did for Cuba as part of the resolution

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

of the Cuban Missile Crisis. Such a pledge may
be necessary, but Washington should not assume
that it will be sufficient. It is likely that Tehran will
want more concrete actions by the United States
(and other countries) if it is to give up the safety
of a potential nuclear arsenal—even a theoretical
one. It is critical that the international community, and especially the United States, provide such
concrete demonstrations of good faith both because it is unlikely that the Iranian people will be
swayed otherwise, and because it can assuage the
residual fears of European and Asian publics that
the United States is simply using the diplomatic
process to set up a military operation against Iran.
The more difficult process will be to diminish
the conventional military threat posed to Iran by
American forces in the Middle East and Indian
Ocean. The United States has vital interests in the
Persian Gulf region as that part of the world is
both economically vital and politically unstable.
Consequently, even after the United States draws
down its presence in Iraq, it is highly likely that
it will still maintain military forces in the Gulf,
and those forces (which can be quickly reinforced
from other regions) will always constitute a threat
to Iran.
The United States could make unilateral concessions to Tehran, like agreeing to deploy no more
than one aircraft carrier battle group in the Gulf
or Arabian Sea at any time. However, Tehran is
unlikely to view this as much of a concession
because of how easy it would be for the United
States to break that agreement if it ever chose to.
The problem is further compounded by the fact
that the United States will not be willing to go
much beyond that (assuming it is willing to go
even that far) for fear of jeopardizing its ability
to respond to other problems in the fragile Gulf
region. Finally, few Americans will want to restrict Washington’s ability to employ force in the
Gulf without reciprocal moves by Iran. For all of
those reasons, a new security architecture in the

Persian Gulf constructed from a process of security discussions, confidence-building measures,
and (eventually) real arms control agreements
is probably the only realistic way to meet Iran’s
legitimate security concerns in a manner that
would be palatable to the United States and its allies in the region. Thus the United States ought to
be willing to offer the inauguration of just such a
process (using the Commission on Security and
Cooperation in Europe as a starting point), which
would hold out the potential for Iran to secure
constraints on the deployment and operation of
American military forces in the region in return
for their agreement to take on different but commensurate limitations on their own forces.
Political Incentives
Iranians of virtually every stripe aspire for their
country to play a leadership role in the Middle
East. Indeed, many seek to dominate their immediate neighbors as did the Pahlavi Shahs in their
day. Iran’s nuclear program appears to be part of
that drive, although the explanation for how it
would bolster Iranian prestige or power, and to
what end, varies from person to person. Whatever the rationale, convincing Iran to agree to a deal
that would end its nuclear program—and, ideally,
its other anti-status-quo activities as well—will
probably also entail conditions that allow Iran
to fulfill at least some of these aspirations some
other way.
A key question will be whether Iranians are ready
to be accepted as a legitimate participant in the international politics of the Middle East, but not the
dominant state in the region, as so many Iranians
want. Again, views on this vary in Tehran, but it is
just unclear what the Iranian leadership would be
willing to accept, and direct negotiations with Iran
should help to ascertain whether there is room for
compromise. Under no circumstances, however,
should the United States grant Iran a position of
dominance, nor should we leave any ambiguity
about what we see as Iran’s role in the region. Our

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

29

allies in the GCC are terrified that Washington
hopes to resurrect the alliance with a domineering
Iran that the Johnson and Nixon Administrations
tried to use to keep the peace of the Gulf. Consequently, there should be no doubt in anyone’s
mind that accepting Iran as a state with legitimate
security concerns and a political role to play does
not mean granting Tehran regional hegemony.
Here as well, the idea of creating a security architecture for the Persian Gulf like that of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe
would be a good place to start. It would provide
exactly such a vehicle for the Iranians to have
their legitimate security concerns heard, and even
assuaged, by the other Gulf powers, but it would
also make clear that Tehran was no more than
equal to the other states of the region. It would
not mean giving the Iranians whatever they want,
but it would mean giving them the opportunity to
have their voices heard and be included as members of “the club.”

Engagement
Although the process of engaging Tehran is dealt
with at much greater length in the next chapter, it
is important to note that it also has a role in the
Persuasion approach. First, it will be extremely
difficult to conduct this strategy without a more
expansive dialogue between the United States and
Iran than the weak, long-distance line that has
existed for the past five years (if not the past 30
years). Before proposing packages of incentives
to Iran, the United States will need to get a better
sense of what Iran wants and what it needs. Offers
will likely have to be refined and adapted through
a process of negotiation before they have any
hope of becoming agreements. The United States
may also need to convey to Iran more directly the
seriousness of the penalties that it would pay for
refusing to comply. All of this would be greatly
facilitated by direct engagement between Washington and Tehran.

30

Moreover, a critical element of the Persuasion
option is for the United States to demonstrate
that it wants better relations with Iran and is
willing to do everything to achieve this short of
accepting Iran’s nuclear ambitions, support for
violent extremist groups, and efforts to overturn
the regional status quo. The Bush Administration’s refusal to speak to Iran directly conveyed
precisely the opposite conviction—and so tended to reinforce the perceptions of both Iranians
and others (including Europeans, Japanese, Russians, Chinese, and Indians) that Washington
was not sincere and was merely going through
the motions of reaching out to Tehran in the
hope that Tehran would reject the offer so that
Washington could then pursue a more aggressive policy. The goal should rather be to convince the Iranians that the United States wants
them to do the right thing, not to trick them into
doing the wrong thing to make more aggressive
policy options more viable. Consequently, this
approach should express a clear desire for direct
engagement, not only to facilitate negotiations
but also to demonstrate good will toward Iran so
as to make a cooperative resolution of the current situation more likely.
In this sense, engagement with Iran is a tactic
of the Persuasion approach, at least initially. In
this policy option, engaging Iran is meant to facilitate a deal that would resolve all of Washington’s many disputes with Tehran and give Iran
the chance to change its behavior in fundamental
ways that would allow the United States and its
international partners to bring Iran back into the
community of nations. If Iran accepts that deal
and fundamentally changes its behavior, then the
tactic of engagement shifts easily into a strategy
of engagement. Once Iran has demonstrated its
goodwill and has chosen the path of compromise
with the United States and the wider international community, that same process of engagement
would be expanded into the kind of strategic engagement envisioned in the next chapter.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

Preparing to Bring the Hammer Down
A critical element of the Persuasion option, and
largely what sets it apart from the Engagement
option, is the need to secure international agreement on a series of painful sanctions to be imposed on Iran if it turns down the package of
benefits. The sanctions need to be made clear to
Iran as the punishment for refusing to take the
deal at the same time it is proffered. In addition,
the negotiations within the international community on the sanctions need to be an integral part of
working out the details of the benefits so that the
United States and other countries more willing to
sanction Iran (like France) can trade benefits for
sanctions with those states less inclined to penalize Iran for its recalcitrance.
These sanctions need to be more painful than
those imposed on Iran so far, but they probably
should be graduated—meaning that they can start
out less painful and grow more onerous over time
if Iran continues to refuse the deal. A graduated
approach of ratcheting up the pressure on Iran
will make many countries more comfortable with
the process since it would mean that Iran would
have ample opportunity to reverse course before
the most painful measures are imposed.
So far, most of the UN Security Council sanctions
on Iran have had little impact because they have
targeted the travel and foreign assets of individuals and Iranian entities connected to its nuclear
program. The financial sanctions imposed on
Iran both multilaterally and unilaterally by the
United States and a number of European countries have been far more threatening to Tehran,
and many Iranians seem to believe that they are
contributing to Iran’s current crop of serious economic problems.17

17

This demonstrates that future sanctions against
Iran must be directed primarily against the Iranian economy. This is Iran’s Achilles’ heel, and
little else has meaningful impact on the political
debate of the Iranian leadership. In particular,
new sanctions on Iran should focus on further
curtailing Iranian financial activities and preventing the foreign investment that Iranians desperately need. Going after Iran’s ability to secure insurance and reinsurance from international firms
could further strain the country’s finances. Some
direct trade sanctions might also be appropriate,
but they will need to be designed very carefully.
Prohibiting trade can have an immediate impact
on the civilian population, and if it causes deaths
or illness (especially among children), can quickly
undermine international support for the sanctions, as was the case with the UN sanctions on
Iraq in the 1990s.
Nevertheless, there are some important exceptions to these rules. For instance, one noneconomic trade sanction that ought to be on the table is an international ban on arms sales to Iran.
Similarly, if the international community wants
to continue to punish specific Iranian institutions
rather than the entire system, a better candidate
than entities like the Revolutionary Guards would
be the massive bonyads, so-called charitable organizations established after the revolution—that
control as much as half of the economic activity
in Iran and are among the worst sources of the
endemic corruption in Iran. These control dozens, if not hundreds, of subsidiaries that, along
with quasi-state-controlled companies, dominate
the Iranian economy and serve as critical sources
of graft for various regime officials. Sanctioning
these entities by preventing them from conducting
international financial transactions would not
only hit at institutions of far greater importance

See, for example, Robin Wright, “Stuart Levy’s War: The Sanctions That Could Coax Iran,” New York Times Sunday Magazine, October 31,
2008; Laura Secor, “Letter from Tehran: The Rationalist,” New Yorker, February 9, 2009, esp. pp. 36-38.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

31

to the regime but would also take aim at organizations widely loathed by the Iranian people, a rare
and fortuitous circumstance in the history of economic sanctions.
Weighing Oil and Gas Sanctions
Potentially the most devastating sanctions the
international community might levy against Iran
would focus on its hydrocarbon economy. Iran
is highly dependent on its oil exports for revenue and its gasoline imports for transportation.
Prohibiting either one could cripple the Iranian
economy and cause massive problems throughout Iranian society. For this reason, many have
advocated such sanctions as being the only sure
way to exert enough pressure to motivate the Iranian regime to give up its nuclear program.
This logic may well be correct, but there are real
risks if it proves otherwise. The oil market remains volatile right now, and the loss of Iran’s 2.5
million barrels per day of exports could push oil
prices back up to economically damaging levels.
For this reason, there is little international appetite for preventing Iran from exporting oil. By
the same token, if the international community
were to prohibit (or even limit) Iranian gasoline
imports, there is a real risk that the regime would
respond by suspending its oil exports, causing the
same problem. After all, from Tehran’s perspective, the restriction of gasoline imports could risk
causing the collapse of the Iranian economy and
thus the regime itself. In such circumstances, Iranian leaders may see little point in restraint because they may not feel that the loss of their oil
revenue is as important if they cannot purchase
one of their most essential imports. Or, they may
calculate that the only way that they can persuade
the international community to give up a gasoline
embargo is to do the one thing that would threaten the economy of the international community.
Prohibiting gasoline sales to Iran could also be so
draconian that it would actually undermine the

32

sanctions altogether. As noted above, it takes long
periods of time for economic sanctions to have
their impact and persuade a recalcitrant regime
to take an action it hopes to avoid. This means
that for sanctions to work, they must be sustainable for months or years. However, as history has
shown—most dramatically in the case of Iraq under Saddam Husayn—sanctions that are considered excessively harsh and are believed to be causing widespread malnutrition, starvation, medical
problems, and ultimately the death of innocent
people (especially children) are unsustainable,
regardless of the accuracy of those perceptions. If
the international community were to cut off Iranian gasoline imports, it is virtually axiomatic that
the Iranians would claim that innocents were dying, for example, because food could not be produced or distributed, homes could not be heated,
and ambulances could not rush seriously ill people
to the hospital. These claims might prove entirely
false, but the sight of dead children whose deaths
are said to be related to the sanctions would likely
undermine international support for the sanctions, regardless of the Iranian regime’s behavior.
For these reasons, sanctions against Iran’s hydrocarbon economy, particularly its vulnerable gasoline imports, probably should be used only as part
of a final set of sanctions at the end of a longer
process of ratcheting up the pressure on Tehran—
if they are employed at all.
Nail Down the Sanctions Up Front
An important lesson from the experiences of the
Bush Administration on Iran, as well as the Clinton Administration’s efforts to deal with Saddam
Husayn, is the need to agree on specific sanctions and announce them as warnings long before
they are to come into effect. Although the great
powers all agreed during the Bush 43 years that
Iran should not be allowed to acquire a uranium
enrichment capability, and that it should be
punished for refusing to comply with various
UN Security Council demands embodied in

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

resolutions enacted under Chapter VII of the UN
Charter (which makes them binding upon all
member states), whenever it came time to actually impose such sanctions on Iran, reluctant countries were able to weaken the actual resolutions to
the point where they had little bite.
It is always easier to agree on harsher sanctions
if the negotiations are conducted well before any
sanctions are likely to be imposed. The key is then
to codify those sanctions—and ideally write them
into the very resolutions making the demands—so
that they cannot be watered down when it comes
time to impose them. Of course, the Iranians and
their supporters would doubtless try even then, but
the best chance that the United States has of securing harsh international sanctions is unquestionably
to codify them and secure public, international
consensus on them long before they actually need
to be implemented. Codifying the sanctions to be
incurred for failure to comply at each step of the
process is also critically important so that the Iranians have a clear sense of the pain they will suffer
if they fail to comply. Only in this way and only if
the sanctions were very painful would those Iranians arguing for accommodation with the international community be able to demonstrate that the
price Iran would pay for continued intransigence
would be too high. The repeated ability of Iran’s allies in the Security Council to water down sanctions resolutions has convinced most of the Iranian
leadership that their allies will be able to do so in
the future. Only if Tehran sees that the sanctions
are daunting and were agreed to ahead of time
would it be likely to reconsider its course of action.
Unambiguous Triggers
George Perkovich of the Carnegie Endowment
has compellingly argued that another critical
element of any new sanctions on Iran is to tie
them, to the extent possible, to detectable Iranian

18

actions. The more it is the case that new sanctions
are triggered by Iranian actions (with both the actions and the sanctions to be imposed agreed to
beforehand), the harder it will be for those who oppose further sanctions to avoid them. As Perkovich points out, because Iran has endlessly insisted
that its nuclear program is intended only for civilian energy purposes, it ought to be possible for
the UN Security Council to forbid certain actions
that are only consistent with nuclear weapons production and demand other actions that are only
consistent with nuclear energy production. Harsh
sanctions should be used as penalties for Iran’s unwillingness to do either. This scenario would make
it very hard for the Russians, Chinese, and others
to argue against the penalties.
Some examples of Iranian actions that could be
tied to specific sanctions include:
 An Iranian withdrawal from the Non-Proliferation Treaty, which could only be interpreted as intent to build weapons with the
uranium they have enriched.
 Iranian unwillingness to sign the additional
protocol to the Non-Proliferation Treaty,
which provides for much more aggressive
and comprehensive inspections, and which
Tehran has repeatedly said it has accepted,
although no Iranian government has ever
actually ratified it.
 Further enrichment of low-enriched uranium (LEU), which is adequate for energy
generation, to highly enriched uranium
(HEU), which is really only necessary for
nuclear weapons.18
 A failure to convert the LEU that Iran now
possesses into fuel rods for reactors. The

HEU does have some other esoteric uses, but it is not necessary for Iran’s declared purposes. And given the danger of HEU as an explosive,
neither the Iranians nor any of their allies could credibly claim that they had a peaceful need for HEU that justified its production.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

33

Security Council, working through the
IAEA, should demand that Iran convert
all of its LEU into fuel rods—which ought
to be acceptable to Tehran given its claims
that it wants nuclear energy, not nuclear
weapons.
 Continued storage of LEU near Iran’s centrifuge cascades—where it could easily be
enriched to HEU for weapons. Indeed,
the IAEA should demand that Iran establish a storage facility for all of its LEU far
from its centrifuge plants, with appropriate
safeguards and regular inspections by the
IAEA to account for all of the LEU Iran has
produced.19
Under circumstances in which Tehran may be
attempting to sow confusion and create ambiguity, this is an extremely useful approach to the
problem of how to impose sanctions on Iran for
its misbehavior. However, it cannot be the only
method of imposing new sanctions on Iran. As
noted above, negotiations over a deal cannot be
allowed to become a means by which Iran simply
avoids any penalties. Consequently, other sanctions will have to be tied to certain deadlines—
Iran must accept either key pieces of or the entire
deal being offered by the international community by a prescribed time, or it will face other penalties. Otherwise, Tehran may have no incentive
to ever take the deal or reject it, and it will simply
be able to keep playing for time.

The Ends, Not the Means
Because it will be difficult for a Persuasion approach to work under any circumstances, it would
be preferable for the United States and its allies to
concentrate purely on the outcome of the process
and less (or not at all) on the process itself. What

19

34

is important is securing international support and
convincing the Iranians to accept the deal on offer; everything else ought to be incidental from an
American perspective.
Some Americans have argued that the deal ought
to be part of a “grand bargain” between Tehran
and the West (or the whole international community) because Iran will only be able to make the
necessary concessions in the context of securing
its needs on a host of other issues. Others have
argued that such a grand bargain would simply be
too much for the Iranian system to handle, and so
the United States and the international community should instead seek incremental agreements
and/or deals on various pieces of the whole, both
of which could be more easily digested by Tehran. Ultimately, it should be left to the Iranians
to decide which approach is most palatable for
them, and the United States and its allies should
make very clear that they are amenable to either
approach. It should not matter how the United
States gets to the outcome, only that it gets there.
Given how many hurdles the United States will
face, it should not add more unnecessarily.
For the same reasons, the United States should be
willing to allow the Iranians to define who and
how they meet, as well as where. Some analysts
argue that Americans must be present at the table
when offers are put to the Iranians to demonstrate
U.S. commitment to them. Others have insisted
that an American presence at the table would
make it impossible for Tehran to accede to any
such offer. Again, all that matters is whether the
Iranians want Americans at the table.
The one related element of process that does
transcend the general rule that the United States
should focus on function, not form, is whether
the offer should be made to Tehran secretly or

The authors thank George Perkovich both for the general idea and the specific examples.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

publicly. Again, there is debate among Americans
and others, with one side arguing that a public offer would spark Iranian nationalism and virtually
force the regime to reject it, and the other countering that a secret offer would allow opponents
within the regime to kill it behind closed doors
and then mislead the public about its contents.
On this issue, those who argue for a public declaration of the contents of the offer have a strong
case. In previous iterations, regime hard-liners
have been able to prevail in the political debates
over various international offers to Tehran partly
because the Iranian public never really understood what was being proposed. Since one of the
critical elements of this offer is the idea that the
deal will be so attractive to the vast number of
Iranians that the regime will not feel able to turn
it down (and that European publics will likewise
see it as a deal that no Iranian regime with benign
intentions could possibly reject), it is vitally important that the terms be made public. Keeping
the contents of the deal secret would undermine
the central principle of this option.
That said, it would still be consistent with this
policy option to initiate contacts in secret, if that
were preferable to Tehran, conduct negotiations
secretly, and even make the initial offer to the
leadership in private. However, Tehran should
understand that in these circumstances, the international community would only keep the terms
of the offer secret for a set period of time, and if
the leadership did not come back with a positive
response before that deadline, the terms would
be made public. Indeed, this could be one way to
impose time limits to prevent the Iranians from
simply stringing along the negotiations.

The Cape and the Sword
The question of whether negotiations with Iran
should be overt or covert is related to another
aspect of the Persuasion approach: what to play

up and what to play down. For a variety of reasons, many Iranians are extremely sensitive to
their public treatment by the United States. Thus
how Washington (and its international partners)
describes its policy toward Iran, what it chooses
to publicize, and what it tries to keep private are
all important. Unfortunately, the Obama Administration has already taken some important missteps in this respect.
When threatened, Iranian leaders tend to respond
defensively, rejecting the threats unthinkingly regardless of their content or the potential impact
on Iran. Especially since the 1978 revolution,
Tehran has frequently cut off its own nose to spite
its face when threatened. Moreover, because of
the Iranian regime’s deep insecurity—both literally and figuratively—the only way that a policy
of Persuasion can succeed (in terms of securing
Iranian agreement to a deal that would preclude
its acquisition of a nuclear arsenal, terminate its
support for violent extremist groups, and end its
efforts to overturn the Middle Eastern status quo)
is if the Iranian regime is able to claim that it won
a great victory from the deal. As long as the United States gets what it needs, Washington should
be fine with allowing the Iranians to crow all they
want, because that will be a necessary precondition for achieving American aims.
This necessity should shape America’s public
statements about its Iran policy as long as a Persuasion approach is being pursued, as the Obama
Administration has been doing so far. Quite simply, the United States should emphasize its desire
for engagement and rapprochement, promote all
of the benefits to the Iranian people from agreeing to do so, and talk about its desire for a cooperative, long-term relationship between these two
great nations. At the same time, the administration initially should say nothing in public about
the sanctions and other punishments that will be
inflicted on Iran should it fail to accept the deal.
First, it is self-evident that if Iran does not accept

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

35

the president’s outstretched hand, the United States
will adopt a different approach that will not be so
friendly. Second, Iran is going to find out about
the sanctions anyway—Tehran has various sources
who will report on the negotiations between the
United States and other key members of the international community over what sanctions to impose on Iran for failing to comply or engage, trying
to draw out negotiations, or taking actions clearly
intended to advance a nuclear weapons program.
Eventually, those threats would need to be made
public, but for the Obama Administration, there is
still time for that. Third, because the regime will
not agree to be seen as bowing to pressure, issuing
constant public threats, as Obama Administration
personnel have done in their first weeks in office,
simply undermines the ability to get the Iranians to
the table (let alone agree to the compromises that
would make a deal possible) and does not materially advance any American interests.
On a related note, any American administration
(including the current one) that intends to pursue the Persuasion approach should never utter
the term “carrot and stick” in public. Although it
is simply a metaphor, even a cliché, that Americans use to describe any diplomatic policy that
employs both positive and negative incentives, because the metaphor is derived from the way one
handles a donkey, it is often offensive to the object
of the policy. That is certainly the case for Iran,
which has repeatedly bridled at the term, including when President-elect Obama employed it in a
televised interview.20
This too must be kept in perspective. Ultimately,
rapprochement between longtime adversaries only
becomes possible when both sides have made the
unilateral calculation that is in their own best interests to end the squabble. When both have done
so, the rapprochement typically takes place, and it

20

36

typically takes place despite any number of missteps and offensive statements by people on both
sides. The two countries inevitably overlook these
slights because it is in their own best interests to
do so. This is a critical point to keep in mind when
considering the potential for a U.S.-Iranian deal.
Countries do not make peace as a favor to one
another; they do it out of a cold calculation that it
serves their interests. Any rapprochement that can
be derailed by obnoxious rhetoric is not the genuine item. During the American reconciliation with
China in the 1970s and 1980s, and with India in
the 1990s and 2000s, reactionaries on both sides
fired off outrageous verbal broadsides at the other
country to try to derail the process. Washington,
Beijing, and New Delhi all chose to continue to improve relations because of the benefits to each of
them of doing so. Until Iran decides that improved
relations with the United States are in its interest, it
does not matter what the United States says, there
will be no rapprochement; and once the Iranians
make that decision, affronts to its dignity will lose
much (if not all) of their sting.
Nevertheless, words do have impact, and they can
certainly complicate a delicate rapprochement—
even once both countries have crossed the crucial
Rubicon of seeing the rapprochement as in their
interests. These complications rarely affect the ultimate outcome, but they certainly can affect the
timing of the rapprochement. Given that America’s problems with Iran are closely tied to matters of timing, Washington should try as hard as
it can to not prolong this process by saying careless things that would make it harder for Tehran
to cooperate. Indeed, the smartest thing that an
American administration pursuing the Persuasion approach could do, would be to announce
that it was pursuing a policy of pure Engagement
instead, playing up all of the positives and the desire for a cooperative relationship, and pushing

Obama, Meet the Press, December 7, 2008.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

the sanctions and all of the threats well into the
background until it becomes clear that the Iranians are interested in a deal.21

Requirements
As its name implies, the requirements of the Persuasion approach are principally diplomatic and
secondarily political. Military risks and economic
costs are both likely to be relatively low. In addition
to those requirements already mentioned (significant economic incentives, the possibility of compromising on enrichment, the need for a highly
intrusive inspection regime, and others), the most
important and potentially most onerous requirement of this option is the need to strike diplomatic
deals with Russia, China, and potentially other
countries to secure their support for the new offer
to Iran. In particular, the United States would need
their agreement to impose crippling sanctions on
Iran if Tehran continues to refuse the offer.
A critical failing of the Bush Administration was
its unwillingness to prioritize among foreign policy issues and make sacrifices on issues of lesser
importance to secure gains on those of greater
importance. As a result, it never really tested
whether reluctant countries like Russia and China could be brought around to support tougher
moves against Iran if Tehran failed to accede to
UN Security Council demands. A key element of
Persuasion would be prioritization—putting Iran
ahead of other considerations and then making
the necessary trade-offs to secure the support of
Russia, China, India, and other relevant countries.
Although the Russians certainly make money
off their relationship with Tehran, they have
repeatedly stated that Iran should not be allowed

to develop an enrichment capability and privately
signaled their willingness to cooperate with the
United States on Iran in return for American concessions elsewhere—probably on issues of greater
importance to Moscow, like missile defense, Georgia, Chechnya, Belarus, Bosnia, Kosovo, and/or
Ukraine. Steven Pifer has suggested that an easy
compromise the United States could make would
be to slow down the installation of ballistic missile defense systems in Eastern Europe in return
for Russian cooperation on Iran.22 This might be
expanded to an explicit deal in which the speed
of emplacement and ultimate extent of American
missile defenses were directly related to the rapidity of Iran’s nuclear development and whether
Tehran ultimately agreed to suspend or end it.
This would then put the onus on the Russians to
find ways to convince the Iranians to stop their
program (which likely would mean joining in
on tough international sanctions) if the former
wanted to head off the deployment of the American missile defense systems. Especially after the
August 2008 Russian moves in Georgia, it would
be repugnant for the United States simply to acquiesce to the reassertion of Russian dominance
over the former countries of the Soviet Union, but
it may be necessary to cut some deals in order to
secure Moscow’s support for a tougher Iran policy. If the current administration truly cares about
preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapons
capability and is determined to pursue the Persuasion approach to the greatest extent possible, it
may find it necessary to make such hard decisions.
Similarly, the Chinese have privately indicated
that their greatest concern is secure energy supplies and that they, too, would be willing to go
along with harsher sanctions on a recalcitrant
Iran if the United States were willing to find ways

 ere is some evidence to suggest that the Obama Administration is doing exactly that. See White House, “Videotaped Remarks by the
Th
President in Celebration of Nowruz.”
22
Steven Pifer, “Reversing the Decline: An Agenda for U.S.-Russian Relations in 2009,” Policy Paper no. 10, Brookings Institution, January
2009.
21

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

37

to help China with its energy needs. Setting up a
joint energy committee for Chinese and American officials to begin a dialogue, as Jeffrey Bader
has suggested, would be a good place to start. Another option could entail determined efforts by
the United States to reduce its own energy dependence (thereby freeing up oil supplies for Chinese
purchasers) and encouraging oil-producing allies
(such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab
Emirates, Mexico, and Canada) to work more
closely with the Chinese to reassure them that
their energy needs will be met.
Other countries also will want payoffs from the
United States in return for their assistance on
Iran. Such deals may be distasteful, but many will
be unavoidable if the Persuasion approach is to
have a reasonable chance of succeeding. Without
support from a wide range of other countries,
sanctions on Iran will prove toothless. It is not
that these nations do not recognize a danger in
a nuclear-armed Iran; they just do not regard it
as a high priority. As a result, the United States
may have to offer them some benefit on one of
their higher priorities to secure their cooperation
on Iran, assuming that the current administration
considers it one of America’s highest priorities.

Pros and Cons
The following are the advantages and disadvantages of the Persuasion approach.

Advantages:
 There is evidence that a strategy of employing both positive and negative incentives
has had an impact on Iranian politics, and
in the manner—though not the extent—
hoped for. Throughout the 2003-2007
time frame, Iranian elites debated about
their nuclear program, with a number
suggesting that Iran ought to be willing to
make compromises to avoid international

38

sanctions that they feared would cripple
their already fragile economy. Given that
the Bush Administration was never willing
to offer the kind of positive inducements
that might have made Iranians take notice
or might have convinced Europeans, Russians, Chinese, and others to go along with
the kind of harsh sanctions that might have
made Iranians wince, the level of debate
during this period was surprising. It suggests that a more enthusiastic embrace of
this option could produce a much more
intense debate in Tehran that could result
in a decision to accept a deal. The success
of similar approaches with Libya and (to a
lesser extent) North Korea also bolsters this
supposition.
 Th
 is is precisely the course that most U.S.
allies would like to see Washington pursue
toward Iran. This makes it most likely that
Washington would secure international cooperation for this option (which, as mentioned above, is a requirement) and could
translate into leverage with those allies.
In other words, foreign countries may be
willing to accommodate the United States
to convince Washington to follow this
course—especially if they believe that the
new administration is seriously considering
regime change, the military option, or the
Israeli military option (these are discussed
in subsequent chapters) as alternatives.
 Although in an era of domestic economic
distress every penny counts, the costs of the
likely economic incentives to Tehran would
be minor—and could well be offset if U.S.Iranian trade blossoms anew in the wake of
such a deal.
 For those looking to avoid a military confrontation with Tehran, a Persuasion approach would be unlikely to produce such

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

a conflict. It would be self-defeating for
Tehran to lash out militarily in response to
sharper international sanctions, and they
have never done so in the past.
 For those who favor regime change or a
military attack on Iran (either by the United
States or Israel), there is a strong argument
to be made for trying this option first. Inciting regime change in Iran would be greatly
assisted by convincing the Iranian people
that their government is so ideologically
blinkered that it refuses to do what is best
for the people and instead clings to a policy
that could only bring ruin on the country.
The ideal scenario in this case would be
that the United States and the international
community present a package of positive
inducements so enticing that the Iranian
citizenry would support the deal, only to
have the regime reject it. In a similar vein,
any military operation against Iran will likely be very unpopular around the world and
require the proper international context—
both to ensure the logistical support the operation would require and to minimize the
blowback from it. The best way to minimize
international opprobrium and maximize
support (however, grudging or covert) is
to strike only when there is a widespread
conviction that the Iranians were given but
then rejected a superb offer—one so good
that only a regime determined to acquire
nuclear weapons and acquire them for the
wrong reasons would turn it down. Under
those circumstances, the United States (or
Israel) could portray its operations as taken
in sorrow, not anger, and at least some in
the international community would conclude that the Iranians “brought it on themselves” by refusing a very good deal.
 For similar reasons, the Persuasion approach nicely sets up Containment as a fall-

back strategy. If the United States and the
international community offer the Iranian
leadership a deal so good that they should
not refuse it, but still do, they will convince
much of the world that they are bound and
determined to acquire nuclear weapons—
and probably for nefarious purposes. More
to the point, the kinds of harsh sanctions
that would hopefully be on the table as part
of this strategy would come into force if Tehran rejected the offer. The key is that these
penalties would constitute a far more powerful set of constraints than Iran has faced in
the past. In this way, Containment is one of
two natural outcomes of the Persuasion approach: if Tehran accepts the deal, the threat
from Iran is eliminated; but if it refuses the
deal, the sanctions are imposed, creating a
strong Containment option.

Disadvantages:
 To be successful, a Persuasion approach
would invariably require unpleasant compromises with third-party countries to
secure their cooperation against Iran. In
many cases, the United States would likely
have to choose among very unpalatable options and decide whether securing international support on Iran is worth betraying
some other national principle or interest.
 Th
 e Iranians are unlikely to give a simple
“yes” or “no” answer when the deal is finally presented. As in the past, their most
likely answer will be “yes, but. . . .” At least
initially, they will attempt to see if they can
wriggle out of the ultimatum, split the international coalition, or simply improve
the terms and weaken the sanctions. If this
is just part of a process to improve an offer that the regime has fundamentally decided to accept, it would be annoying but
not harmful. On the other hand, the regime

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

39

may very well decide to reject the offer but
feign acceptance while insisting on negotiating the details, and use such a process to
buy time. This is why the time limits and
the automaticity of the sanctions are so
important; if they are not part of the deal,
then the Iranians could reasonably expect
to escape the punishments (and the wider
emplacement of a Containment regime
against them) altogether.
 Although starting with a Persuasion approach can create some advantages for
both the regime change and military options, the potential for Iran to prolong
negotiations could also ultimately undermine these two options. In particular, the
longer that the United States or Israel waits
to strike Iran’s nuclear facilities, the more
likely it will be that Iran will have improved
its defenses, potentially diminishing the
impact of the strikes. Similarly, protracted
haggling over the terms of a deal (at which
the Iranians excel) will muddy the clarity
of the international offer, making it easier
for the regime to claim that the deal fell
apart over technicalities—which will obscure why the regime turned down the deal
and weaken domestic incentives for regime
change, as well as international resolve to
impose sanctions.
 Although there is no theoretical reason why
the United States could not adopt the Persuasion option and still support democracy
and human rights in Iran, the reality may
be otherwise. In particular, Tehran may demand an end to such U.S. practices as part of
the final deal, and if Iran truly were willing
to give up its nuclear program, support for
violent extremist groups, and other efforts
to reorder the Middle Eastern status quo, it
would be hard for the United States to reject this condition. Nevertheless, such an

40

abdication could be odious to many Americans and Iranians alike. Indeed, the policy
is predicated on the assumption that what
the Iranian people want most is a healthy
economy, and if they are promised that,
they will give up almost anything else—
and if they are threatened with the ruin
of their economy, they will do anything to
prevent it. However, if it turns out that political freedom, not economic prosperity,
is the Iranian people’s highest desire, then
the United States not only might be selling them out but also might discover that
a core assumption of this option is wrong.
 Some Iran analysts have argued that any
policy that includes sanctions is self-defeating. They contend that when faced with
threats of any kind, the clerical regime consistently reacts instinctively with belligerence, even when doing so is ultimately detrimental to its own interests. Consequently,
in their view, whatever potential impact the
positive inducements of the Persuasion approach might have would be undercut by
the reflexive negative reaction to the threat
of sanctions. It is this fiercely argued but
unproven belief that lies at the heart of the
Engagement approach, which argues for
using only carrots, not sticks.
 There are reasons to believe that this policy
will simply fail because of the intricacies
and dysfunctions of Iranian domestic politics. Even if the positive and negative pressures work as intended (and as the debates
from 2005-2007 suggest, they can), external influences are never more than one factor in Iranian decisionmaking. Since the
revolution, the Iranian regime has acted
in ways that have seemed bizarre and baffling to outsiders because they appeared
to run contrary to Iran’s national interests.
In virtually every case, it has been because

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

the Iranian leadership has understood its
interests differently from the way in which
outsiders have and/or because of domestic
political considerations and endless political maneuvering among the elites. Since
this policy option ultimately relies on the
Iranian decisionmaking process to make a
difficult choice based on external strategic
logic, and since the Iranian system has just
as often made decisions on alternative considerations that run contrary to such logic,
one should not assume that this policy is
bound to succeed.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

41

Chapter 2

TEMPTING TEHRAN
The Engagement Option*

A

s the previous chapter noted, the Bush Administration tried a version of the Persuasion approach toward Iran for roughly three years
and failed to convince Tehran to end its quest for
a nuclear weapons capability or cease its other
problematic behavior. In response, a number of
Iran analysts have suggested that the problem was
not the Bush Administration’s half-hearted and
contradictory embrace of the strategy but rather
that the policy itself was flawed. These analysts
argue that the threat and imposition of sanctions
will inevitably prompt nationalistic Iranians and
a fearful regime to reject any diplomatic overture
from the West, no matter what the consequences.
They have recommended instead that Washington drop the sticks and instead focus on the carrots as the only way of creating a set of incentives
that the Iranian regime might accept.
At the heart of the Bush Administration’s oscillating initiatives toward Iran was a profound
uncertainty about the utility of direct engagement with Tehran in addressing America’s most
pressing concerns about Iran’s nuclear ambitions,

its support for terrorism, its quest for regional
dominance, and its treatment of its own citizens.
This uncertainty over engagement transcended
the narrow confines of a typical policy debate and
emerged as a central issue of contention between
the two presidential candidates in 2008.
During the election campaign, then-candidate
Obama famously announced his willingness to
engage with Iran, and he has renewed this pledge
since taking office. But what remains unclear, and
what many partisans and experts on both sides
continue to debate, is whether engagement should
be merely one element of a larger approach or the
central (perhaps only) aspect of the new U.S. policy. The purpose of this chapter is therefore to examine the Engagement option—as a stand-alone
initiative—as a prospective policy option for the
current administration.

Goal
At one level, the goals of a policy of pure Engagement are identical to those of the Persuasion

* As we noted in the Introduction, some have referred to the Obama Administration’s current Iran policy as one of “engagement,” but this is a
misnomer. The Obama Administration’s policy differs in a number of important ways from a policy of Engagement as it has been described
and promoted for nearly a decade. Most important, the administration is already employing a variety of threats against Iran to try to
convince Tehran to give up its problematic behavior, and its offer to negotiate directly with the regime is thus limited in time. Both of these
elements run directly contrary to the core elements of a policy of pure “Engagement” with Iran. Instead, the Obama Administration is
pursuing what we have called in this volume a policy of “Persuasion,” one that is also often referred to as a policy of “carrots and sticks”
(including by the president himself).

42

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y T o wa r d I r a n

option. Engagement seeks to convince the Iranian
regime to give up a range of behaviors that the
United States finds threatening. It proposes to do
so by offering Tehran a range of diplomatic, strategic, and economic inducements so attractive
that the Iranians will gladly give up their problematic policies to secure these benefits.
However, a critical difference between Engagement and Persuasion is that Engagement makes
no effort to convince Iran to change its behavior
soon. Instead, it is a process left open to the Iranian regime and, as the next section explains, there
is every likelihood that it would take years for the
regime to change its ways as a result of this strategy, if it does so at all. Consequently, a critical element of the Engagement approach is the implicit
assumption that there is nothing that the United
States or the international community can do to
prevent Iran from pursuing its nuclear program
to whatever end Tehran has in mind. Similarly,
Engagement has no mechanism by which to try
to prevent Iran from supporting violent extremist groups, subverting Arab-Israeli peace efforts,
or generally destabilizing the region. Although in
theory the option endeavors to convince the regime to do so, in practical terms the policy consciously surrenders any potential leverage on Iran
to make it do so. It is ultimately a strategy aimed
only at long-term change, although its advocates
would argue that such change is both the only
realistic change and the most profound change
imaginable.
Indeed, at first blush, it would seem that the Engagement approach has no ambitions to change
the Iranian regime, and this is certainly true in
the short term. The hope of Engagement is that
once this regime no longer feels threatened by the
United States or the international community in
any way, it will come to believe that improved relations would enhance its own power and stability, and so will choose to change its ways. Indeed,
with this approach, success would have to be

defined in a way that falls short of achieving any
maximalist conception of Washington’s ideal aims.
Even the best-case outcome of Engagement—a
grand bargain achieved in a relatively short time
frame—would likely leave unaddressed disturbing Iranian policies, such as Tehran’s treatment of
the most vulnerable of its citizenry, at least in the
short term. Such an optimal end state of Engagement would entail an American-Iranian relationship marked by skeptical ties, cooperation within
narrow constraints on areas of common interest,
and over the long term, the slow expansion of interaction and mutual trust. However, American
engagement with Iran, even if successful, will not
preclude competition or even tensions. In analogous cases—Iran’s uneasy détentes with the United Kingdom and Saudi Arabia, or America’s relationships with China or Libya—rapprochement
has not remedied all difficulties.
Nevertheless, while Engagement is routinely criticized as overly accommodating of the internal
inadequacies of the Iranian regime, proponents
suggest that its long-term payoff could exceed its
more ambitious alternatives. Although Engagement is not directly predicated upon a change
in the complexion of Iran’s regime, its advocates
argue that the process itself would provide the
most direct and secure path toward altering the
political and ideological character of the regime
itself. They argue that increasing the level and
frequency of interaction between Iranians and
the broader world would erode the regime’s legitimacy, create new sources and centers of power
and influence, shatter the monopolistic controls
of crony elites, and generally usher in more conducive conditions for a democratic transition
in Iran. Moreover, many of Engagement’s advocates contend that the only way profound political change can come to Iran is if the United
States backs off, removing the bugbear that the
regime uses to justify its repressive controls. In
this space, they contend, indigenous democracy
activists would flourish, and the result would be

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

43

the gradual ascent of a coalition of democratic
forces that they see as already emerging from the
wreckage of the reformist movement.
The prospects of these assertions coming to fruition are difficult to assess. Normalization and the
dramatic expansion of economic ties have certainly transformed China by creating a massive
middle class, empowering new interest groups
outside the parameters of the Communist Party,
and corroding the influence of official ideology.
Still, economic liberalization has yet to make a
substantial dent in the authoritarian control of
the Chinese state or its human rights policies. In
other situations—particularly the more personalistic autocracy of Muammar Qadhafi’s Libya—the
prospect that rapprochement with Washington
may stimulate meaningful internal progress is
highly unlikely. Nonetheless, proponents of Engagement with Iran point to its well-developed
civil society and its considerable experience with
competitive politics—albeit currently only within
the narrow constraints permitted by the regime—
as indicators that Iran’s contested domestic political scene would be well-positioned to benefit
from the openings provided by Engagement.

Time Frame
Engagement can only work over the long term.
First, simply alleviating Tehran’s fears about the
United States would take many years. This is especially so since American forces will remain in Iraq
until at least the beginning of 2012, their presence
in Afghanistan is open ended, and they will likely
remain in the Persian Gulf for decades. Because
of this, Iran will face powerful U.S. military units
on its western, southern, and eastern border for a
long time, and this will be threatening no matter
how pacific American rhetoric is or how quickly
Washington can dismantle the vast web of unilateral sanctions against Iran that have been built
up in countless acts of legislation and executive
orders. Indeed, the process of dismantling the

44

sanctions—assuming Congress would agree to
it—would be an equally long process. The debate
over whether the United States is genuine in these
changes would be only one element in what will
doubtless be a protracted and intense political
fight in Tehran over whether to engage Washington under even those circumstances. Enmity with
the United States was a core element of Khomeini’s philosophy. Many Iranian leaders believe in it
fervently and others see it as inherently part of the
regime’s legitimacy. Both groups will be loath to
abandon it in favor of rapprochement.
Moreover, even security assurances and the dismantling of sanctions would not spell success
for a policy of pure Engagement. First, under
these circumstances, Iran’s hard-liners would
doubtless argue that because Iran faces no punishment for continuing with its current policy,
there is no reason to change course. This is one
area where the analogy with China breaks down:
when Washington began its rapprochement with
Beijing, China was not actively pursuing policies inimical to American interests, let alone designed to harm the United States. For the most
part, China had itself shifted gears and (in tacit
cooperation with the United States) was actively
opposing the Soviet Union and conducting other
initiatives beneficial to the United States. At least
initially—and that initial period might last years
or even decades—Iran would push forward on its
nuclear program; would continue to back Hizballah, Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, the Taliban, and other violent extremist groups; would
continue to oppose an Arab-Israeli peace as being inimical to its own interests; and would likely
continue to support policies designed to destabilize the Middle East. Indeed, it may well increase
all of these activities.
Consequently, Engagement has a low likelihood
of eliminating problematic Iranian behavior in
the short term. Proponents of Engagement must
ultimately accept that by pursuing this option, the

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

United States may be acquiescing to several years
or more of further Iranian nuclear development,
possibly including the development of an actual
arsenal, as well as other actions that run counter
to U.S. interests.
The contention of those who favor Engagement
is that sticking to this approach will, over time,
moderate Iran’s behavior and then lead to the
gradual evolution of its political system in a more
positive direction. There is no time limit on this
and no way to speed things up (indeed, doing so
would be counterproductive as it would mean
putting pressure on Tehran), and for these reasons, it is impossible to know how long it would
take to produce “success.” Of course, those who
advocate pure Engagement also contend that all
of the other options would fail to secure results
in a meaningful time frame, too, and that only
Engagement would deliver results at all, even if it
takes years or decades to do so.

Overview of the Policy
Engagement as defined loosely—the simple act
of talking to Tehran—represents an almost inevitable component of any broad strategic approach
to dealing with the challenges posed by the Islamic
Republic. Diplomacy is by definition the normal
conduct of business between sovereign states, and
even in the absence of formal relations between
governments, the need to communicate directly
persists. Throughout their 30-year estrangement,
Washington and Tehran have communicated routinely on a range of urgent and mundane questions,
largely but not entirely through the intermediation
of the Swiss, who represent U.S. interests in Tehran.
Moreover, the manifest utility of dialogue has
persuaded every U.S. president—with the exception of a three-year hiatus by the Bush 43
Administration between 2003 and 2006—to deal
directly with the Iranian government. President
Jimmy Carter pursued negotiations through a

variety of direct and indirect channels throughout
the long siege of the hostage crisis, even maintaining formal relations—including allowing Iran to
maintain its embassy in Washington—for a full
five months during the ordeal. Throughout the
1980s, America’s readiness to deal directly with
Tehran persisted, even in the face of escalating
regional tensions and U.S.-Iranian naval skirmishes in the Gulf. This receptivity helped inspire
the Reagan Administration’s covert arms sales to
the struggling Islamic Republic, in addition to the
obvious short-term interest in enlisting Iranian
assistance on behalf of Western hostages held in
Lebanon. Even in the disastrous aftermath of the
“Iran-Contra” affair, Secretary of State George
Shultz explicitly kept the door open to dialogue,
with U.S. officials continuing to meet with Iranian interlocutors, repeatedly requesting meetings with various Iranian leaders, and responding
positively to back-channel queries from Tehran.
President George H.W. Bush continued this pattern of signaling American willingness to engage,
most notably through his inaugural address assertion that “goodwill begets goodwill.” Iran’s initial
response was disappointing, but sufficient positive signs emanated from Tehran, including an
August 1989 overture by President Rafsanjani, for
the Bush 41 Administration to persist in pressing
for Iranian assistance in freeing Western hostages
held in Lebanon, albeit indirectly through the
United Nations. Bush publicly appealed to Tehran
for better relations, and in February 1991, Secretary of State James Baker floated the notion of
some positive role for Iran in a post–Persian Gulf
war security framework.
The Clinton Administration entered office determined to avoid the disastrous Iranian entanglements of its predecessors, but prompted by
Iran’s unexpected 1997 election of a moderate
president, resumed and intensified its predecessors’ efforts to reach out to Tehran. These efforts
included authorizing the sale of airplane spare

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

45

parts; relaxing sanctions on food, medicine, and
Iran’s most important non-oil exports; a proposal
to open a consular station in Iran; back-channel
invitations to Iranian reformers to develop a modus vivendi on terrorism; and several remarkable
speeches by senior U.S. officials designed to assuage Iran’s historical grievances and open a new
era of interaction.
Finally and most recently, the George W. Bush
Administration—before embracing regime change
and shunning Tehran rather than “legitimize”
its undemocratic leadership—launched the only
sustained, officially sanctioned dialogue since
the negotiations that led to the 1981 hostage release. Before and during the American invasion
of Afghanistan, American officials regularly met
with Iranian representatives for help against their
common foes, the Taliban and al-Qa’ida. Iranian
assistance with intelligence, overflights, and logistics proved invaluable to the U.S. war effort. Later,
after a three-year hiatus, the administration publicly recommitted itself to engagement through
the May 2006 offer, extended jointly with America’s European allies, Russia and China, for direct
talks with Tehran on the nuclear issue.23 Although
Iran refused to meet the primary condition of
the offer by suspending uranium enrichment,
the United States repeatedly reissued the invitation over the course of two years. Thus, even for a
president who had denounced talks with radicals
as appeasement, engagement with Tehran proved
an unavoidable component of his strategy.
This history forms an important context for
President Obama’s determination to try to reopen a formal dialogue with Tehran. There seems
to be little doubt that the new president wants
to give Iran every chance to resolve its standoff
with the international community cooperatively.

23

46

Moreover—and paradoxically—it is hard to envision any more muscular approach to Iran that
does not include a serious attempt at undertaking
talks with Tehran. It seems unlikely that any U.S.
administration would implement military action
or a concerted program of regime change, for example, without first testing the waters of dialogue,
if only to establish the bona fides of its actions
and shore up the support of a skeptical public and
hesitant international community.
Moreover, as noted in the previous chapter, engagement would likely be an important element
of a Persuasion approach that sought to use both
positive and negative incentives to convince Iran
to give up its destabilizing activities in the near
term. However, in the case of that option, engagement would begin simply as a tactic that the
United States would use to gather information
about Iran, determine its needs, signal subtle
threats, and conduct negotiations to refine one or
more offers to Iran. This tactical dialogue could
then grow into strategic Engagement with Iran,
but only if Tehran agreed to accept the package
of incentives in return for ending its destabilizing
behavior. If Iran refused, this option would likely
evolve in a different direction—adopting aspects
of regime change, possible military options, or
shifting to a tighter containment of Iran than was
possible in the past.

The Basic Framework
The Engagement option imagines two different paths to a better relationship with Iran. The
first is the offer of a range of positive incentives
for Iran largely identical to those encompassed in
the Persuasion option, in return for which Tehran
would desist from its nuclear program, support
for violent extremist groups, and general efforts

 or the text of the proposal, see France Diplomatie, “Elements of a Revised Proposal to Iran Made by the E3+3,” available at <http://www.
F
diplomatie.gouv.fr/en/country-files_156/iran_301/the-iranian-nuclear-question_2724/elements-of-revised-proposal-to-iran_5314.html>,
downloaded March 23, 2009.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

to overturn the regional status quo. This is the Engagement approach’s method for trying to address
Iran’s problematic behavior in the near term.
However, as noted above, the reality is that removing all threats against Tehran—let alone lifting the
sanctions on Iran—could easily produce the opposite effect within the Iranian political debate
over the short term, as regime hard-liners would
take it as a sign that their policy of confrontation
had been right all along, and Iranian pragmatists
would likely have difficulty making the case that
Iran would need to give up this policy to secure
further benefits from the West. In practice, it
would be hard to convince the regime that these
moves were not a sign of American concession,
at least for some time, during which Iran would
likely continue its problematic behaviors.
Over the long term, the Engagement option envisions a process by which consistent American
reassurance to Tehran, discontinuation of threatening American activities, and repeated offers of
goodwill would change the Iranian perception of
the United States. It assumes that Iranian behavior
toward the United States is driven principally by
a perception of threat from the United States and
reactions to American moves perceived as hostile
in Tehran. Consequently, over time, a series of
confidence-building measures, including the deal
envisioned in the preceding paragraph, would
break down the barriers of this security dilemma
and prompt Tehran to curb and eventually end its
own hostile policies toward the United States.
Finally, as part of the long-term aspect of this
policy option, the Engagement approach also
argues that the only hope of fostering meaningful internal political change in Iran is for the
United States and the international community
to end their hostile behavior toward Iran, and to
reduce the clerical regime’s paranoia and undermine the basis for its repression of the Iranian
people. Advocates of Engagement argue that only
in these circumstances will a genuine democratic

opposition to the current regime be able to grow
and secure the support of an Iranian populace
longing for change.

Putting Engagement First
Employing Engagement with Iran as the centerpiece of U.S. policy would entail a wholesale shift
from all prior U.S. approaches, which have chiefly
relied on military, economic, and diplomatic coercion—coupled at times with parallel efforts at
enticement—to induce Tehran to abandon its
troublemaking ways. A serious U.S. policy of pure
Engagement, however, would focus primarily, if
not exclusively, on incentives as a means of altering Iranian political dynamics, policy options,
and strategic choices. Direct dialogue with Tehran would be the sine qua non of an American
effort to engage Iran; however, the talks in and of
themselves would represent a means rather than
an end. The ultimate goal of Engagement would
be the establishment of an enabling environment
and diplomatic framework to support cooperation between Washington and Tehran on issues
of common concern and to further integrate Iran
into a rules-based global order.
The premise of such an approach is that Iran’s
most dangerous policies reflect an interests-based
response to the threats its leadership perceives
and the capabilities at its disposal, rather than an
inexorable expression of the revolutionary and/
or Islamic ideology that is such a distinctive element of the regime’s rhetoric. As such, the policy
assumes that Iran’s support of terrorist groups and
actions, its obstinate attachment to a massive and
originally secret nuclear infrastructure, and its
efforts to assert its sway across the Middle East
are all policies that are subject to revision and adaptation in response to changing circumstances.
The objective of Engagement is to change those
circumstances in a positive fashion, restraining
Tehran not by threat, use of force, or financial
compulsion but by persuading Iranian leaders

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

47

that their interests are better served by cooperation than by confrontation.
Advocates of Engagement argue that a wholehearted U.S. embrace of this policy would alter
Tehran’s preferences in three primary ways. First,
by expanding Iran’s diplomatic horizons, Engagement would help mitigate the regime’s perpetual
insecurities and provide more acceptable mechanisms for Iran to assume its historic self-image as
a great power. The diminution of the long-standing antagonism with Washington would empower Iranian moderates and create new avenues of
influence that would provide even its hard-liners
with a stake in maintaining constructive relations
with the international community. Second, the
economic incentives of expanded trade and investment with the international community, and
specifically with America, would raise the cost for
noncompliance and create internal constituencies
for continued moderation. Faced with the prospect of losing material opportunities that would
offer direct benefit to the Iranian people—and
perhaps more important, to the influential political elites themselves—Tehran would constrain
its own behavior. Finally, Engagement would entail increasing interaction with the world, which
would have an inevitably liberalizing effect on
society and, more specifically, the regime’s leadership and its politically relevant base of support.
For advocates of Engagement, the foremost model is that of the American opening to China. For
Washington, the decision to normalize relations
with China represented a recognition of the limitations of American power in the aftermath of
a disastrous war and an acknowledgment of the
ascendance of new centers of gravity within the
international system. For their part, the Chinese
had come to a parallel epiphany about their strategic vulnerability in a world of enemies and the
potential utility of a breakthrough with Washington. Neither side capitulated, but the strategic bargain that was concluded transformed the

48

parameters of the relationship from open hostility
to managed competition and episodic collaboration. Pursuing Engagement with Iran would require each side to accept just such a clear-headed
appreciation of both the legitimate grievances and
security interests of its adversary as well as a vision of the value and viability of an enduring strategic bargain between them.

Two Paths to Engagement
Engagement can be considered in two general formats: an incremental/compartmentalized route
or the “grand bargain” approach. Either approach
would seek as its ultimate objective a comprehensive framework to address all the issues outstanding between Washington and Tehran and
generate a framework for eventual normalization
of relations, because only a multifaceted process
that tackles the broad host of issues at stake between the two governments could generate both
the versatility and credibility to make real progress on the hardest issues.
The two options would differ primarily in their
operational dimensions. An incremental or compartmentalized approach would undertake separate negotiating tracks organized around specific
issue areas such as nuclear matters, Iran’s role in
the Levant, Persian Gulf security, and the financial
and legal claims that Iran and the United States
hold against each other. The tracks would be distinct and noncontingent, in the sense that logjams
in one arena would not preclude progress in another. Most advocates of Engagement highlight
the centrality of the bilateral conversation between
Washington and Tehran. However, the protracted
immersion of the permanent members of the UN
Security Council as well as Germany into this conflict all but ensures that the multilateral component of the nuclear diplomacy will be retained under any new framework for Engagement. In such
a compartmentalized approach to Engagement,
it would be possible for Washington and Tehran

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

to achieve bilateral consensus on a single area of
concern while continuing to wrangle over more
problematic items of the overall agenda.
Conversely, a grand bargain approach would
endeavor to engage the wide range of issues involving Iran as a package, addressing each of the
American concerns and Iranian grievances simultaneously with the objective of fashioning a comprehensive accord. Proponents of the grand bargain contend that a durable deal is best fashioned
by tackling the totality of American differences
with Tehran rather than in a piecemeal or gradualist manner. Many often cite as an added benefit
the boost that any such comprehensive offer might
provide to America’s standing in the world and its
efforts to generate sufficient diplomatic cooperation from key allies. The precise contours of the
grand bargain would, of course, be determined
by the parties through negotiations, but various
descriptions of the potential trade-offs and commitments suggest that such a deal could comprise
the provision of American security guarantees to
Tehran along with a process to dismantle U.S. economic and diplomatic sanctions in exchange for
Iranian steps to disavow Hizballah, Hamas, and
other terrorist proxies and undertake measures to
provide full transparency and confidence in the
peaceful nature of its nuclear activities.
Advocates of each of the two options hold opposing
views on the viability of the alternative. Those who
prefer an incremental approach suggest that a grand
bargain is simply unrealistic given the duration and
acrimony of the estrangement and the sensitivity
of the issues at stake for both sides. Incrementalists
contend that early, specific progress in narrowly defined areas of common interest is an essential component to sustaining the process of engagement itself, and that only by achieving tangible benefits can
engagement create the level of mutual confidence
and political leverage from reluctant constituencies
on both sides to facilitate concessions on more contentious issues or sustain any broader agreement.

Those who favor a holistic grand bargain approach deride incrementalism as prone to collapse and/or reversal under the weight of predictably episodic stumbling blocks. They point to
the inability of either the United States or Iran to
move beyond issue-specific cooperation in those
instances where such interaction has been initiated, including the 2001-2003 talks on Afghanistan,
arguing that only a fully inclusive approach will
generate the momentum necessary to advance an
undertaking of this magnitude to its fruition. For
its supporters, only a grand bargain offers the requisite assurances for each side to make the epic
concessions that its adversary demands.
The crux of the difference between these competing approaches to Engagement involves their understanding and interpretation of Iran’s internal
politics. Those who advocate an issue-specific,
compartmentalized strategy of Engagement suggest that incrementalism is critical to building
confidence and political support among Iranian
hard-liners, whose ideological affinities and elite
self-interest have long cemented their opposition to any normalization with America. Supporters of a grand bargain approach point to a
2003 trial balloon floated by influential Iranian
reformists with reported support from the country’s supreme leader as evidence that the Islamic
Republic can in fact transcend its internal rivalries and ideological impediments when the state’s
interests so demand. Since the Bush Administration failed to pursue the 2003 proposal, in part
because of questions about its credibility, the issue of Iran’s political will to resolve its antipathy
with Washington remains largely untested and
ultimately unknown.

The Inducements
The Engagement option’s method of trying to convince the Iranian regime to cease its problematic
behavior in the near or medium term relies on offering Iran only positive incentives, without the

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

49

negative incentives of Persuasion. In this sense,
Engagement as a policy option is also predicated
upon the efficacy of incentives to alter the preferences, priorities, and policies of the Iranian leadership. While the specific scope of any incentives
would ultimately be determined by the American
administration, most proposals suggest three
broad areas that should be addressed: nuclear,
strategic, and economic. Five years of frustrating and mostly fruitless negotiations between the
international community and Iran have tended
to prioritize the first, on the premise that the regime’s staunchly nationalist defense of its “right”
to nuclear technology limits its flexibility in acceding to the self-imposed limitations desired by
the international community. Having invested its
national prestige in the advancement and expansion of its nuclear expertise and infrastructure,
the Iranian regime will only be willing to curtail
its ambitions in exchange for carrots specifically
tailored to satisfy its ostensible need for technical
prowess and alternative power sources. To date,
the offers of Western investment in light-water
reactors and fuel guarantees have proven insufficient to tempt a political elite that is increasingly
aligned around the utility of obstinacy on the
nuclear issue, but it is reasonable to envision that
the right package could produce a more amenable
response.
The political and economic components of any
potential incentives package are similarly essential to the prospect of the Iranian regime contemplating meaningful concessions of its own.
Throughout most of the last three decades, the
primary obstacle to generating any diplomatic
traction between Washington and Tehran has
been Tehran’s insistence on specific U.S. policy
changes as a prerequisite for engaging in any
dialogue. The particular preconditions typically

24
25

50

sought by Tehran have included a range of economic as well as political concessions on the part
of Washington, such as the release of Iran’s remaining assets frozen by the United States, the
lifting of American sanctions, and the removal
of U.S. forces from the Persian Gulf. Ultimately,
however, the importance of these preconditions
for Tehran appears to be as much symbolic as
practical. Iranian officials have asserted explicitly and repeatedly that U.S. confidence-building
measures are necessary to demonstrate American respect for Iran’s revolution and its leadership. Tehran demands “practical steps” from
Washington in order to “establish its sincerity
and good faith.”24 American supplication has
been needed to assuage Iran’s persistently offended sensibilities. As an influential conservative journalist once questioned, “How can [supreme leader] Ayatollah [‘Ali] Khamenei accept
relations with America if it shows no sign of repentance for its past actions?”25
In order to address Iran’s underlying insecurity,
many advocates of Engagement have called for
specific U.S. commitments to refrain from efforts
to remove the Iranian regime as well as provide
security guarantees similar to those envisioned
in the Persuasion approach. To some extent, such
pledges would appear to replicate the language
of nonintervention that can be found in various international accords, including the tripartite agreement that ended the hostage crisis. The
1981 Algiers Accords pledges “that it is and from
now on will be the policy of the United States not
to intervene, directly or indirectly, politically or
militarily, in Iran’s internal affairs.” Interestingly,
there is no evidence that a new U.S. pledge to respect Iran’s sovereignty and refrain from threats
or aggression would have particular resonance
with Tehran. Demands for a security guarantee

David Menashri, Post-Revolutionary Politics in Iran (London: Frank Cass Publishers, 2001), p. 192.
“‘Islamic New Thinker’ Sees Formula for Iran-U.S. Ties,” Reuters, May 29, 2001.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

have never been part of the litany of conditions
articulated by Iranian leaders—in fact, many
have explicitly rejected this idea—and given their
profound mistrust in U.S. leaders and motives, it
is not clear why Tehran’s persistent insecurities
would be assuaged in any meaningful way by a
new set of U.S. written commitments.
Instead, as with the Persuasion approach, security
guarantees to Tehran would likely have to go well
beyond toothless rhetoric. Again, such steps could
include American efforts to initiate a dialogue on
small-bore issues such as resumption of talks on
naval protocols for incident-at-sea prevention or
a U.S. proposal for a regional security framework
that integrates the Islamic Republic more fully
within the region. Here as well, it would be of
equal or greater importance to Tehran that as part
of any security guarantees, Washington pledge to
curtail or end its high-profile efforts to promote
democracy within Iran. These activities undermine U.S. efforts to draw Iran to the negotiating
table by suggesting that the principal American
objective is the eradication of the Islamic Republic and its leadership. These tangible measures,
buttressed by unequivocal statements by senior
American officials about the nature of U.S. aims
and intentions toward Iran, could produce greater
traction among Iranian decisionmakers.
A final and critical dimension of any Engagement approach involves economic inducements.
These are envisioned as a more effective alternative to sanctions, which for over 28 years have
failed to produce significant positive changes to
Iran’s most problematic policies. Of course, there
is clear evidence that Iranian leaders are sensitive
to economic pressure and, at various points, have
adjusted their policies on the basis of costs, constraints, and opportunities. The best example of
this can be seen in the efforts to promote regional
détente during the late 1990s, which reflected,
at least in part, reformist president Muhammad
Khatami’s concerns about sagging oil revenues

and the urgent need for foreign investment. Nevertheless, proponents of the pure Engagement approach argue that economic rewards could prove
more valuable in enticing Iran today, given the
profound economic problems—particularly inflation in consumer goods and real estate costs—
that have resulted from President Mahmud Ahmadinejad’s disastrous approach to economic
management. Offers that tap into the frustration
of politically salient constituencies—bazaar merchants, for example, as well as the considerable
class of privileged elites who have successfully
parlayed political access into material wealth under the Islamic Republic—could create powerful
internal advocates for policy changes within Iran.

Time and Timing
However effective economic incentives might
prove, any U.S. administration seeking to implement the Engagement strategy vis-à-vis Iran will
face a dilemma over the issues of time and timing. Currently, American individuals and entities are forbidden from engaging in nearly all
forms of business interaction with Tehran, and
even the exceptions carved out under the Clinton
Administration that permit food, medicine, and
certain other non-oil exports have come under
great pressure in recent years. Offering economic
concessions in advance of any specific, tangible
policy changes from Tehran would prove politically radioactive within the American domestic
political debate. Moreover, even a simple effort to
relax or suspend the most recently enacted sanctions, many of which have crimped Iran’s interaction with the international financial system,
would require the White House to make a positive assertion that the individuals or institutions
have ceased involvement with terrorism and/or
proliferation activities. No material economic
gestures from Washington can be contemplated
until a process of engagement is well under way,
and Tehran has demonstrated its willingness and
capacity to curtail its worst excesses.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

51

In the absence of some hint of Iranian reciprocation, the best that any U.S. administration could
likely produce is a more temperate attitude toward Iran’s economic relationships with various
international financial institutions and with U.S.
allies, many of whom have curtailed export credits and other measures that facilitate trade with
Iran because of legitimate concerns about the
investment climate there as much as in response
to U.S. pressure. One potentially powerful tool
would be measures such as executory contracts
that permit Americans to engage in businessrelated discussions with Iranian counterparts but
defer any actual exchange of resources or services
until further political progress has been achieved.
Moreover, Engagement suffers from some of the
same problems with time as the Persuasion approach. In particular, it is virtually impossible to
know if the policy is working until it has manifestly succeeded—and it could well take years or even
decades to succeed. Following a policy of pure Engagement, the United States would make a number of offers to Tehran and, to the extent possible,
couple them with the kinds of unilateral gestures
described above to try to demonstrate Washington’s good faith. Since no one could expect Tehran
to respond immediately, the policy would have to
anticipate a period of waiting during which time
Tehran would have to make up its mind. Unscrupulous Iranian leaders might well attempt to draw
out that period by hinting at a willingness to engage the United States even if they had no intention of doing so, merely to buy time to complete
their nuclear program and advance other programs and policies inimical to American interests. Without even the threat of harsher economic
sanctions embodied in the Persuasion approach,
Engagement would have a far more difficult time
even establishing when the policy had failed and
that it was time to shift to another strategy.

An Uncertain Partner
Finally, any balanced assessment of a policy of
pure Engagement must address the likelihood
that Iran would respond as hoped. At present,
that likelihood seems uncertain at best, and
there is considerable evidence to justify real pessimism. Iran’s current internal political dynamics present a thorny environment for any effort
at Engagement. The conservative retrenchment
and the ascendance of Ahmadinejad’s brand
of radicalism essentially eliminate any nearterm prospect of a self-generated liberalization
of Iran’s internal politics and approach to the
world. Iranian leaders see their state as besieged
from all directions by Washington, a product of
both its deeply engrained paranoia as well as actual facts on the ground. At the same time, the
leadership—in particular President Ahmadinejad—is buoyed by a sense of confidence, even
arrogance, about the country’s domestic and regional status.
What this bifurcated view of the world translates
to in practice is a tendency to equate assertiveness as equivalent to, or an effective substitute
for, power—both in internal politics and in foreign policy. This Hobbesian worldview encourages adventurism and discourages compromise.
Molded by their perception of an inherently
hostile world and the conviction that that the
exigencies of regime survival justify its actions,
Iranian leaders seek to exploit every opening,
pursue multiple or contradictory agendas, play
various capitals against one another, and engage
in pressure tactics—including the limited use of
force—to advance their interests. As Khamene’i
has argued, “Rights cannot be achieved by entreating. If you supplicate, withdraw and show
flexibility, arrogant powers will make their threat
more serious.”26

Karim Sadjadpour, “Reading Khamenei: The World View of Iran’s Most Powerful Leader,” Report, Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace, March 2008, p. 16, available at <http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/sadjadpour_iran_final2.pdf>.

26

52

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

As Iran’s ultimate authority, Khamene’i frames the
parameters of any debate on an issue of this magnitude and can wield a veto over any overtures or
responses. Gaining his imprimatur for both the
process as well as any eventual outcome of Engagement will be essential but also immensely
challenging. Khamene’i has never exhibited any
evidence of positive sentiments toward America,
and the United States has had no direct contact
with either the supreme leader or anyone in his
office for the past 30 years. Beyond Khamene’i,
any overtures toward Iran will have to contend
with the outsized personality and ambitions of
President Ahmadinejad. Despite his manifest difficulties with both Iran’s political elites as well as
its population, it would be a mistake to presume
that the era of Ahmadinejad is already on the
wane. Even if he somehow passes from the scene,
there is every reason to believe that the legacy of
his ideological fervor and the constituency whose
worldview he reflects will continue to shape the
options available to any future Iranian leader.
Any effort to promote engagement must find a
way to co-opt or circumvent Ahmadinejad and
those of his ideological ilk, most of whom have
limited international exposure.
Still, it is worth noting that a positive shift in
Iran’s internal politics—one that swings the pendulum back toward the center or even toward a
more liberalized domestic order—will not necessarily facilitate new cooperation on the international front. The power struggle that dominated
Iran during the reformist zenith complicated its
decisionmaking, and the exigencies of internal
competition constrained even those leaders who
might have been amenable to reaching out to
Washington. Thus, after auspicious initial signals
at the outset of Khatami’s first term, the reformers refrained from overtures to the United States
simply to avoid provoking hard-line reactions
from their rivals. Moreover, shifts in Iran’s internal politics may only undermine whatever international consensus remains around a common

position on Iran, a factor that could stymie efforts
to address the most problematic elements of Iran’s
foreign policy. Those states desperate to avoid any
confrontational policy with Iran, regardless of all
other considerations, often pounce on seeming
shifts in Tehran’s balance of power to justify further inaction.
Perhaps ironically, the consolidation of the conservatives has created a potentially and unexpected new opening for diplomacy with the
United States. Today, for the first time in Iranian
postrevolutionary history, there is cross-factional
support for direct, authoritative dialogue with
their American adversaries. Public endorsement
of negotiations with Washington—a position that
risked a prison term if voiced publicly as recently
as 2002—is now the official position of the entire relevant political elite of the Islamic Republic. The shift can be credited at least in part to
Ahmadinejad, whose conservative backing and
firmly established revolutionary credentials facilitated his surprising and largely ham-fisted
attempts to reach out to Washington as a means
of courting public opinion. Ahmadinejad’s overtures have been reinforced by public statements
from Khamene’i over the past two years offering
grudging but unprecedented support for negotiations with the United States.
To facilitate a serious dialogue, Iran will need
something more than just the crucial blessing
of Khamene’i and Ahmadinejad; given the complexities of the Iranian system and its endemic
factionalism, Engagement will require an Iranian
political figure who is both willing and capable
of championing this agenda. For more than 20
years, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani played that
role, advocating consistently for an improved—if
not wholly restored—relationship with Washington, both in public remarks as early as 1983 and,
more relevantly, behind the scenes as one of the
regime’s central power brokers. However, the
past decade has demonstrated that he is not well

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

53

suited for Iran’s contemporary political environment. Rafsanjani cannot command a vast popular
mandate, as his embarrassing performances in
the 2000 parliamentary and 2005 presidential ballots demonstrated. Nor have his wily, backroom
tactics proven particularly effective in neutralizing the bombast or the populism that has elevated
Ahmadinejad. Rafsanjani will continue to have
an important role in shaping Iran’s policies and
its political evolution, but his heyday is well behind him, and persistent reports of his imminent
resurgence have proven vastly overstated. Who
might assume this mantle as Rafsanjani fades
from the scene? There are a host of potential candidates but none who have yet demonstrated the
necessary interest, tenacity, or political fortitude.

Requirements
The fiscal and military requirements of pursuing
Engagement are effectively negligible; if anything,
a successful implementation could produce some
cost savings for Washington with respect to military resources as well as expanded U.S. economic
opportunities. Conversely, the domestic political
resources required on both sides to make such
an approach viable are imposing. Engagement
reflects a tacit acceptance of two important arguments that are open to debate: first, that Iran’s
leadership is capable of changing policies and behavior that invoke central tenets of the regime’s
ideology; and second, that Iran and the United
States are willing to accommodate each other’s
core interests in order to achieve a peaceful coexistence. Proponents can make a strong case for
the viability of both propositions, but inevitably
the propositions would require an American willingness to invest political capital and diplomatic
energy in a process that has no guarantee of a
positive outcome.
The most important “resource” that would be
required on each side is political capital and
the capacity of each government to support a

54

protracted, complicated negotiating process over
the course of what would inevitably be a period
of great flux, if not turmoil, in the region. Destabilizing developments in a related arena—such as
Iraq, Lebanon, Afghanistan, or the Arab-Israeli
peace process—would impinge upon any incipient negotiating process, and both Washington
and Tehran would require tremendous fortitude
and cross-cutting domestic political support to
ride out these predictable shocks.
Any U.S. administration preparing to undertake
a serious strategy employing only positive incentives toward the Islamic Republic would have to
be willing and prepared to absorb the vehement
backlash from both domestic political constituencies as well as regional allies. A president who
chose to engage Iran—whether as a stand-alone
approach or as part of a more variegated effort—
would need to have the solid backing of Congress,
where grandstanding on issues related to Iran has
long been a popular and politically advantageous
diversion. The president would also need to make
a compelling case to the American people about
the viability and utility of Engagement while cultivating realistic expectations about the challenges
of negotiating with an adversary as complicated
and entrenched as Tehran. This could be especially challenging if Iran chooses not to respond
positively for some period of time, and instead aggressively continues to pursue a nuclear weapons
capability, provide weapons to Iraqi and Afghan
groups killing American troops, oppose Middle
East peace efforts, and engage in other destabilizing
activities. Engagement would win plaudits from
some international constituencies, but the parties
to the past five years of negotiations over Iran’s nuclear program—particularly Britain, France, and
Germany—may perceive this approach as undercutting whatever minimal progress a united multilateral campaign of pressure has achieved to date.
The United States would also have to manage the
disparate interests and concerns of Israel and the
Arab states of the Persian Gulf. Given a policy that

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

regional states will doubtless see as “surrendering” to Iran, Washington would have to convince
Israel not to attack and the GCC not to get nuclear
weapons of their own.
Over the course of implementing its policy of Engagement, Washington would also have to deal
with the ongoing challenges of Iranian mischief
and defending the deal to skeptics. Specifically,
the administration would have to consider the
concessions the United States is prepared and capable of offering to Tehran and the level of Iranian misconduct Washington is prepared to countenance—and then persuade a largely skeptical
political corps that such compromises are worthwhile. Other cases of Iranian détente with former
adversaries—in particular, Britain and Saudi Arabia—have hinged on the ability and willingness of
Iran’s adversaries to accept a considerable degree
of ambiguity from Tehran and to provide significant scope for face-saving rhetoric and actions.
In any U.S.-Iranian engagement process, Washington would have to be prepared to accept a strategic bargain that ultimately falls short of optimal
American objectives. While the United States has
struck similar bargains with other former adversaries, such as China, and has found a way to live
with the manifold failings of imperfect allies such
as Pakistan, Iran has special sensitivity within
the American political context. Even the best imperfect bargain would be difficult to promote at
home and may fall short of meeting American
strategic needs in Southwest Asia. Since this option relies on the Iranians to want our positive
incentives enough to make the compromises we
need, without any threat should they refuse, the
most that Iran might be willing to give up might
fall well short of what the United States considers its minimal goals. For instance, it is impossible to imagine that Iran would give up nuclear
enrichment in these circumstances, and unlikely
27

that they would even agree to the more intrusive
inspections of the NPT’s additional protocol. The
most the United States might get from the Iranians on the nuclear front would be a reaffirmation
of their statement that they are not seeking nuclear weapons, which would elicit much skepticism given the many lies they have already told
the IAEA and the international community about
their nuclear program.
Washington would also need to consider the logistical dimension of any engagement process.
Thanks to the long American absence from Tehran and bureaucratic neglect, the U.S. diplomatic
apparatus for dealing with Iran remains insufficient. To its credit, the Bush Administration invested in upgrading capabilities by establishing a
new set of administrative structures to coordinate
all official policy and activities with respect to
Iran. Over the long term, the new configuration
will create a cadre of American officials skilled in
interpreting Iranian issues and capable of staffing
some future diplomatic engagement; in the short
term, Washington will be pressed to assemble a
team with sufficient background and exposure to
Iran who can staff prolonged negotiations.

Pros and Cons
The following are the advantages and disadvantages of the Engagement approach.

Advantages:
 Th
 ere is evidence that Engagement can
work. The direct bilateral talks on issues
surrounding Afghanistan that were pursued by the Bush Administration between
2001 and 2003 have been described by an
official U.S. participant as “perhaps the
most constructive period of U.S.-Iranian
diplomacy since the fall of the shah.”27

James Dobbins, “How to Talk to Iran,” Washington Post, July 22, 2007, p. B07.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

55

Over the course of 18 months, the direct
communication between Washington and
Tehran on Afghanistan generated tangible
cooperation between the two adversaries
on a critical issue of American security, including valuable tactical Iranian assistance
in Operation Enduring Freedom, the establishment and stabilization of the postTaliban government in Kabul, and Iranian
offers to participate in a U.S.-led training
program for the Afghan army and to launch
a counterterrorism dialogue with Washington.28 The bilateral dialogue was not an easy
or perfect pathway for diplomacy, but even
where the results did not fulfill U.S. expectations, the existence of a direct dialogue
provided an indispensable channel on this
vital issue for both sides. With the appropriate investment of diplomatic resources and
energy, this precedent could be extended to
the wider array of American concerns.
 The costs of the likely economic incentives
to Tehran would be minor—and would
probably be more than offset if U.S.-Iranian
trade flowers as part of a rapprochement.
 A serious, well-crafted effort by Washington to engage Tehran would generate
considerable support among European
allies and potentially create leverage for
alternative policy directions if Engagement
were to fail. At various points over the past
five years, the self-imposed limitations of
the Bush Administration on dealing directly with Tehran were the subject of considerable frustration by its European partners, who often expressed futility at trying
to influence Tehran without any capacity

28

56

to address the underlying dilemma—the
enduring antagonism between the United
States and Iran.
 A serious process of engagement could
temper tensions in the Gulf and might
mitigate unintended clashes between U.S.
forces in the Gulf and Iranian agents and
proxies in Iraq and elsewhere by providing a mechanism for addressing grievances
and concerns, and by generating greater
transparency, enabling each side to observe
its adversary’s preferences and decisionmaking processes. At present, Iranian decisionmakers—like many in Washington—
are trying to interpret American policy and
politics through the glass darkly, which
tends to inflame conspiracy theories and reinforce inaccurate interpretations of intent.
For all those Iranian political actors, such
as Ahmadinejad, who have dismissed the
possibility of a U.S. military strike on the
country, there are others from each end of
the political spectrum who have expressed
fears that a desperate Washington might attack Iran to vindicate and/or extricate itself
from its failed intervention in Iraq. As an
associated benefit, a sustained process of
dialogue between Washington and Tehran
would dampen the security premium that
the market has factored into the high price
of oil, which itself would erode some of
Iran’s current imperviousness to the impact
of economic sanctions.

Disadvantages:
 Iran’s internal politics are so complex and
convoluted that Engagement—which is

See in particular two pieces of testimony before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Subcommittee on National
Security and Foreign Affairs, November 7, 2007: James Dobbins, “Negotiating with Iran,” available at <http://stinet.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRD
oc?AD=ADA474062&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf>; Hillary Mann, “U.S. Diplomacy with Iran: The Limits of Tactical Engagement,”
available at <http://nationalsecurity.oversight.house.gov/documents/20071107175322.pdf>.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

premised on the notion that Iran will reciprocate kindness for kindness—has no guarantee of success. Indeed, there is also evidence that incentives proffered unilaterally
from Washington to Tehran will prove inadequate. The Clinton Administration undertook dramatic steps to create an opening with the reformists during the Khatami
period—including the relaxation of an array of sanctions and a fairly wide-ranging
apology for past policies—and received
no reciprocal positive signals or overtures
from Tehran, in part, no doubt, because
of the enduring power struggle within the
Iranian regime. While the reconsolidation
of power in the hands of Iran’s conservative faction could mitigate this problem,
the current political context within Iran
and the region creates a different complication. Tehran’s hard-liners will interpret any
unilateral initiative from Washington—or
perception of concessions—as a sign of
weakness, which will only bolster the current consensus among the Iranian elite that
a more aggressive position will better serve
their country’s interests.
 Tehran may conclude that the end of confrontational American policies toward Iran
as envisioned in this option is a sign of
weakness on the part of the United States,
and a vindication for their own aggressive
behavior. Not only might this make Iran less
willing to accept any deal proffered by the
United States, in the expectation that further
Iranian aggressiveness might force additional American concessions, but it could lead
to unintended clashes between the United
States and Iran (or Israel and Iran). Thus the
option also runs the risk of provoking the
very military conflict it seeks to avoid.
 The timetable for any negotiating process
exacerbates the inherent discrepancies be-

tween U.S. and Iranian interests. Even in
an optimal situation—a sincere and unified
Iranian commitment to the negotiations—
the process itself would be protracted.
Prior cases of rapprochement with old adversaries involving either the United States
or Iran have entailed years of discussion,
much of it occurring behind the scenes.
The anticipated duration for this negotiation would necessarily be longer, a product of the complexity of the issues at stake,
the entrenched nature of the antagonism,
and the peculiarities of Iran’s perpetually
fractured internal political dynamics and
consensus decisionmaking process. Tehran
could easily use the process of negotiations
and dialogue as an opportunity to maximize its own leverage and dupe the international community, pushing forward until its nuclear capabilities have reached the
fabled “point of no return.” The end result
would be close to the worst-case scenario
from the perspective of U.S. interests in ensuring that Iran does not possess nuclear
weapons capability.
 It is very possible that there simply is no
constituency within Iran that is both willing and capable of making a bargain with
Washington. In fact, there are undoubtedly
important constituencies within the Iranian political elite who would welcome a crisis as a means of rekindling Iran’s waning
revolutionary fires and deflecting attention
from the domestic deficiencies of Islamic
rule. The reality is that despite an array of
missed opportunities on both sides, Tehran
has never clearly communicated that its
leadership would be prepared, fully and authoritatively, to make epic concessions on
the key areas of U.S. concern. Even more
uncertain is whether Iran has had or will
ever attain the level of policy coordination
and institutional coherence that would

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

57

enable any overarching agreement to be
implemented successfully.
 Unless the United States carefully prepares
it allies regarding its adoption of an Engagement approach, Washington may find
that some of its most important partners
in dealing with the challenges posed by
Iran could prove surprisingly unenthusiastic about such a dramatic shift in U.S.
tactics. The Europeans may interpret such
a turnaround as subverting their own considerable investment in a multilateral diplomatic framework for addressing Iran’s
nuclear ambitions, and prove reluctant to
provide crucial international reinforcement for American overtures. Within the
region, America’s Arab allies would likely
react as apprehensively to U.S.-Iranian engagement as they would to the prospect of
a military attack. Given their reliance on
the American security umbrella and their
longstanding trepidations about Iranian
influence and intentions, the Persian Gulf
states would likely seek to bolster their
domestic defenses—and turn to alternative suppliers to do so. They may follow
through on their many private threats to

58

acquire nuclear weapons of their own if
the Iranians are allowed to do so. At the
very last, their confidence in the credibility
of U.S. diplomatic and military commitments would suffer.
 Finally, the Israel factor presents a disturbing wild card for the prospects of Engagement. For most of the past three decades,
Israel and the United States have maintained broadly similar assessments of the
threat posed by Iran and correspondingly
close cooperation on policy. Although
the bilateral relationship today remains as
strong as ever, a reversal of the traditional
American approach to Iran would raise
profound misgivings among most of the
Israeli body politic and their supporters in
the U.S. Congress. If Israeli leaders believe
that their interests are being ill served by
U.S.-Iranian negotiations, they may feel
compelled to take independent military action, irrespective of the prospects of success
or the cascading impact on American interests in the region. Such a scenario would
torpedo any engagement process and likely
create an avalanche of intensified security
dilemmas for Washington.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

Part II

DISARMING TEHRAN
The Military Options

T

he diplomatic options available to the United States for addressing the problem of Iran
share a common, possibly fatal, flaw: they require Iranian cooperation. Even the Persuasion
option, which contains important elements of
coercion in addition to those elements meant to
persuade, ultimately relies on the willingness of
the Iranian regime to cooperate. Both diplomatic
options assume that Tehran is capable of making
cost-benefit analyses, placing strategic considerations ahead of domestic politics and ideology,
and making a major shift in what has been one
of the foundational policies of the Islamic Republic—enmity toward the United States. As the previous chapters noted, all of these assumptions are,
at best, unproven. At worst, there is considerable
evidence calling many of them into question.
This means that neither of the diplomatic options
is a sure thing. They are not doomed to failure, but
neither are they guaranteed to succeed. Neither
may have a better than even chance of success, and
we cannot know with any degree of certainty just
what their true probability of success is.
Beyond this concern, many Americans simply
distrust the Iranian regime. They do not believe
that Tehran will ever live up to any agreements
struck with the United States, no matter what
the circumstances or the manifest advantages to
Tehran. For them, this also calls into question the

advisability of a policy employing both positive
and negative incentives (Persuasion) or one relying only on positive incentives (Engagement) toward Tehran.
Others extend that mistrust not only to Iran but to
Russia, China, and even our European and Japanese allies. They contend that whatever America’s
allies may agree to in theory, they will never be
willing in practice to impose the kinds of penalties on Tehran that might make a diplomatic approach feasible.
For that reason, they reject any option that requires Iranian cooperation, or even the cooperation of America’s allies. Instead, they place
their faith only in options that the United States
could implement unilaterally. Unfortunately, after 30 years of devising ever more creative new
sanctions against Iran, Washington has few unilateral economic and diplomatic methods left to
pressure Tehran. There are essentially no more
economic arrows left in America’s quiver. If the
United States is going to act unilaterally against
Iran, it will likely have to resort to force.
Consequently, for these Americans, force is the
only sensible option to apply toward Tehran. In
their view, force has the great advantage that it is
wholly under American control and can succeed
without Iranian cooperation and only minimal

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

61

allied support. Unlike the regime change options
(covered in Part III), the military options rely on
the most capable instrument of the U.S. government—its peerless armed forces—and, again, do
not require any Iranians (or U.S. allies) to cooperate in any way. Advocates of this policy option see
force as superior to Containment because they
fear that once Iran crosses the nuclear threshold,
the Islamic Republic will prove difficult or even
impossible to deter from greater aggression, and
possibly even nuclear weapons use.
The election of President Ahmadinejad in 2005
and the continued progress of Iran’s nuclear program since then have made the military option
more plausible and prominent. At the same time,
however, growing military difficulties in Iraq made
the idea of another major American military effort
in the Middle East less credible, and the unilateralist and militaristic image of the United States that
developed after the 2003 invasion of Iraq further
constrained Washington. Yet the possibility of using force has remained part of the conversation,
with American officials convinced that it must remain at least a last-ditch recourse, if only to focus
the minds of Iranian leaders. President Obama
has so far refused to rule out the use of force, even
while making clear that it is not the approach to
Iran he plans to take. Meanwhile, Ahmadinejad’s
bellicose posturing toward Israel has made many
worry that even if the United States does not strike
Iran’s nuclear facilities, Israel might do so instead
(possibly with American acquiescence).
With this context in mind, Part II of this monograph examines the military options against Iran.
Even those Americans who consider it a very bad
idea—or at least very premature—must wrestle
with the pros and cons of keeping an explicit military threat as a part of an American policy toolkit
in this difficult situation.

29

62

Part II begins by looking at the most extreme
military option, that of invading the country to
depose the regime, as the United States did in
Iraq and Afghanistan. We chose to consider this
extreme and highly unpopular option partly for
the sake of analytical rigor and partly because if
Iran responded to a confrontational American
policy—such as an airstrike, harsh new sanctions,
or efforts to foment regime change—with a major
escalation of terrorist attacks (or more dire moves
against Israel and other American allies), invasion could become a very “live” option. In 1998
there was almost no one who favored an invasion
of Iraq or believed it likely, but five years later
it was a fait accompli. Certainly stranger things
have happened, and so we cannot simply ignore
this option.
Airstrikes against Iran’s nuclear facilities are the
most frequently discussed military option for the
United States and Israel, and indeed they are the
most likely scenario for the use of force. Consequently, the second chapter of this section examines this option.
Some Americans believe that the costs to the
United States of taking military action against
Iran would be too high, or they simply doubt that
Washington would ever summon the will to do
so, and so they hope that Israel will take action
instead. Regardless of what the U.S. government
wants, Israel might do so anyway if it believes
it has no other alternative. In that scenario, the
United States would have to ask itself whether
to encourage or discourage Jerusalem from taking that fateful step. According to newspaper accounts, the Bush 43 Administration blocked just
such an Israeli attack, and the Obama Administration might face a similar decision at a more
delicate time in the future.29 Consequently, the
last chapter in this section considers this decision.

David E. Sanger, “U.S. Rejected Aid for Israeli Raid on Iranian Nuclear Site,” New York Times, January 10, 2009.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

Chapter 3

GOING ALL THE WAY
Invasion

T

here is little appetite in the United States for
mounting an invasion of Iran. After the frustrations and costs of the wars in Afghanistan and
Iraq, few Americans are looking for another fight
in the Middle East. American ground forces are
badly overstretched as it is. Under these circumstances, an invasion of Iran would require calling
up huge numbers of National Guard and military
reserve personnel and keeping them in service for
several years. After the strains of frequent deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan over the past eight
years, this might undermine the foundations of
the all-volunteer force.
Nor is it clear that a full-scale invasion is necessary. The most compelling rationale for this
course of action is the fear that Iran’s leadership
would prove difficult or impossible to deter once
it had acquired a nuclear weapons capability.
Doubts remain, but American, European, and
even Israeli experts have all argued that while Iran
may not be easy to deter, the available evidence
indicates that it probably could be deterred from
the most extreme behavior. This in turn calls into
question whether the costs of an invasion could
be justified.30

Despite this, only an invasion offers the United
States finality when it comes to its 30-year conflict
with the Islamic Republic. If the goal is to eliminate all the problems the United States has with
the current Iranian regime, from its pursuit of
nuclear weapons to its efforts to overturn the status quo in the Middle East by stirring instability
across the region, there is no other strategy that
can assure this objective. Of course, as U.S. experience in Iraq and Afghanistan has demonstrated,
that certainty comes with the distinct possibility
of creating new risks, threats, and costs that may
be as troublesome or more so than the current
range of problems.
In particular, as American failures in Iraq and Afghanistan have underscored, the critical question
that the United States would need to address in
the event of an invasion of Iran is how to build
a stable, secure, and at least relatively pro-American state after toppling the government. While
American missteps in Mesopotamia and Central
Asia have certainly furnished Washington with a
wealth of lessons about how to do better the next
time around, the idea of applying these lessons to
Iran—a country with three times the population

For experts making this argument, see, for instance, Yair Ettinger, “Former Mossad Chief Downplays Iranian Threat,” Haaretz, October 18,
2007, available at <http://www.haaretz.com/hasen/spages/914171.html>; Tim McGirk and Aaron Klein, “Israel’s Debate Over an Iran Strike,”
Time, July 24, 2008; Kenneth M. Pollack, The Persian Puzzle: The Conflict between Iran and America (New York: Random House, 2004),
pp. 382-386; Barry R. Posen, “We Can Live with a Nuclear Iran,” New York Times, February 27, 2006.

30

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

63

and four times the land mass of Iraq—is daunting. Moreover, since one of the lessons is clearly
that large numbers of troops are needed to secure
the country for months after an invasion and that
those troops could only be provided by a massive,
long-term call-up of National Guard and military
reserve units that might wreck the all-volunteer
force, it is just unclear how the United States
could reasonably expect to handle postwar Iran
if the American people ever did change their perspective enough that an invasion became politically feasible.

Goal
The goal of the Invasion option of Iran would be
to forcibly remove the Iranian government, crush
its military power to prevent any remnants of the
regime from reasserting their control over Iranian
society, and extirpate its nuclear programs. Unfortunately, as Washington learned in Iraq (and
to a lesser extent in Afghanistan), that cannot be
the limit of American goals. As the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan have demonstrated, the United
States would inevitably have to ensure that a reasonably stable and reasonably pro-American (or
at least less anti-American) government would be
able to assume power and rule the country after
U.S. forces departed.
Like Iraq, Iran is too intrinsically and strategically
important a country for the United States to be
able to march in, overthrow its government, and
then march out, leaving chaos in its wake. Iran exports about 2.5 million barrels per day of oil and,
with the right technology, it could produce even
more. It also has one of the largest reserves of natural gas in the world. These resources make Iran
an important supplier of the energy needs of the
global economy. Iran does not border Saudi Arabia—the lynchpin of the oil market—or Kuwait,
but it does border Iraq, another major oil producer and a country where the United States now
has a great deal at stake. Moreover, Iran borders

64

Turkey, a NATO ally, as well as Afghanistan (where
the United States has a growing investment) and
Pakistan—one of the most unstable and dangerous countries in the world. Thus the impact of
spillover from chaos in Iran would likely threaten
vital American interests in several locations.
Consequently, if the United States ever were to
contemplate an invasion of Iran, it would likely
find itself in the same bind as it is in Iraq: the
country is too important to be allowed to slide
into chaos, but given Iran’s internal divisions and
dysfunctional governmental system, it would be a
major undertaking to rebuild it. As with Iraq and
Afghanistan, the reconstruction of Iran would
likely be the longest and hardest part of any invasion, and would generate risks and costs so great
that a decision to invade could only be responsibly made if there were a concomitant commitment to a full-scale effort to ensure the country’s
stability afterwards.

Time Frame
In theory, the United States could mount an invasion at any time. The president could order an
invasion tomorrow, which would seem to make
this option very time efficient. But the reality, of
course, is that it is highly unlikely that he would
do so, and there are many hurdles to be cleared
before the first troops would hit the beaches. Although an invasion might accomplish its objectives more quickly than Engagement or the various regime change options, it still would require
months of military and logistical preparations,
and might take even longer to lay the political and
international foundations.
It seems highly unlikely that the United States
would mount an invasion without any provocation or other buildup. Even in the case of the
Bush Administration’s march to war with Iraq in
2003—which was about as fast as it is possible to
imagine—there was almost a year of preparations,

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

starting with ominous statements from the administration, new UN Security Council resolutions, a congressional vote, the buildup of forces,
and an ultimatum to Saddam Husayn. Moreover,
in the case of Iraq, there was a legal basis that the
Bush Administration could rely upon (the same
basis that Bush 41 and Clinton had used to justify
various air- and missile strikes against Iraq during the 1990s). In the case of an invasion of Iran,
there does not yet seem to be a legal predicate to
justify the use of force—which is important more
because it is required under domestic U.S. law
than because of the need for international legal
sanction. If a provocation or a UN Security Council resolution is needed to provide that legal basis,
that also will take time.
In fact, if the United States were to decide that to
garner greater international support, galvanize
U.S. domestic support, and/or provide a legal justification for an invasion, it would be best to wait
for an Iranian provocation, then the time frame
for an invasion might stretch out indefinitely.
With only one real exception, since the 1978
revolution, the Islamic Republic has never willingly provoked an American military response,
although it certainly has taken actions that could
have done so if Washington had been looking
for a fight.31 Thus it is not impossible that Tehran might take some action that would justify an
American invasion. And it is certainly the case
that if Washington sought such a provocation, it
could take actions that might make it more likely
that Tehran would do so (although being too obvious about this could nullify the provocation).
However, since it would be up to Iran to make the
provocative move, which Iran has been wary of
doing most times in the past, the United States
would never know for sure when it would get the

requisite Iranian provocation. In fact, it might
never come at all.
As far as the time requirements for the military side
of the option, it might take a few months to move
the forces into the region, and then anywhere from
one to six months to conduct the invasion, depending on a variety of circumstances—particularly how
much U.S. forces had been built up in the region
before the attack was launched. Nevertheless, it is
important to keep in mind that the rapid launch
of the war against Iraq was a function of the inadequate number of troops and planning for postwar
reconstruction. Since Washington would not want
to repeat that tragic mistake in Iran, the buildup
for an invasion of Iran would have to be bigger and
thus take longer to complete than the buildup for
the Iraq invasion. Finally, the preparations for Iraq
were greatly aided by a superb network of American bases in the Persian Gulf. Absent some dramatic Iranian provocation, it seems very unlikely that
those same countries (Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, and
Britain, in particular) would allow the United States
to use those same facilities for an invasion of Iran,
potentially further lengthening the time required
for the invasion itself.
As in both Iraq and Afghanistan, postinvasion
reconstruction would be the longest (and possibly the bloodiest) part of the whole endeavor. If it
were handled very well, applying all of the lessons
learned in Iraq and Afghanistan, it might require
only a few years of major military and financial
commitments, followed by a significant diminution of U.S. presence and aid thereafter. If the reconstruction were to go badly, either because of
American mistakes or forces beyond U.S. control,
it could take many more years to produce an acceptable end state.

During the Tanker War of 1987-1988 (a part of the Iran-Iraq War), U.S. naval forces were deployed to the Persian Gulf to escort Kuwaiti oil
tankers that had been attacked by Iranian naval and air forces. Iran responded by mining the Persian Gulf and conducting a number of attacks
and aggressive actions against American naval forces, which at times did trigger American military responses.

31

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

65

Overview of the Policy
A ground invasion of Iran designed to overthrow
the government would be onerous but rather
straightforward. Indeed, it would likely have considerable parallels with the overthrow of Saddam’s
regime in Iraq and the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. Because the United States probably could
not mount the invasion using bases in any of
Iran’s neighboring countries (discussed in greater
detail below), a U.S. Marine force would first have
to seize control of a regional port, after which the
United States could establish a logistical base and
build up its ground and air forces before embarking on a “march” of several hundred miles north
to Tehran.
The key to this policy option is not the mechanics
of its implementation but mustering both the political support and the resources needed to make
it work, and dealing with the potentially painful
consequences of either its success or failure.

Requirements
The requirements for the Invasion option are
complex. In some ways, they are well within
American capabilities; in other ways, they are potentially well beyond our current reach.

The Question of a Provocation
As noted above, in the section on the time frame
for an invasion, whether the United States decides
to invade Iran with or without a provocation is
a critical consideration. With provocation, the
international diplomatic and domestic political
requirements of an invasion would be mitigated,
and the more outrageous the Iranian provocation
(and the less that the United States is seen to be
goading Iran), the more these challenges would
be diminished. In the absence of a sufficiently
horrific provocation, meeting these requirements
would be daunting.

66

For purposes of this analytic exercise, we assume that a U.S. invasion of Iran is not triggered
by an overt, incontrovertible, and unforgivable
act of aggression—something on the order of an
Iranian-backed 9/11, in which the planes bore
Iranian markings and Tehran boasted about its
sponsorship. First, this seems exceptionally unlikely given Iran’s history of avoiding such acts, at
least since the end of the Iran-Iraq War. Second,
were that ever to happen, the circumstances of an
invasion would become almost easy—the United
States would suddenly have enormous domestic
and (perhaps grudging) international support for
undertaking an invasion. Indeed, the entire question of “options” would become irrelevant at that
point: what American president could refrain
from an invasion after the Iranians had just killed
several thousand American civilians in an attack
in the United States itself?
Beyond such a blatant act of inexcusable aggression, the question of provocation gets murky. Most
European, Asian, and Middle Eastern publics are
dead set against any American military action
against Iran derived from the current differences
between Iran and the international community—
let alone Iran and the United States. Other than a
Tehran-sponsored 9/11, it is hard to imagine what
would change their minds. For many democracies
and some fragile autocracies to which Washington
would be looking for support, this public antipathy is likely to prove decisive.
For instance, Saudi Arabia is positively apoplectic about the Iranians’ nuclear program, as well as
about their mischief making in Lebanon, Iraq, and
the Palestinian territories. Yet, so far, Riyadh has
made clear that it will not support military operations of any kind against Iran. Certainly that could
change, but it is hard to imagine what it would take.
For instance, one might speculate that further Iranian progress on enrichment might suffice, but the
Iranians already have the theoretical know-how
and plenty of feedstock to make the fissile material

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

for a bomb.32 Given that this situation has not been
enough to push the GCC to support military operations against Iran, what would? Certainly Iran
testing a nuclear device might, but at that point,
it almost certainly would be too late: if the United
States is going to invade Iran, it will want to do so
before Iran has developed actual nuclear weapons,
not after. It is hard to know what else Iran could
do that would change GCC attitudes about the use
of force unless new leaders took power in the Gulf
who were far more determined to stop Iran than
the current leadership is. And the GCC states tend
to be more worried about the threat from Iran than
European or East Asian countries are.
Given all this, there does not seem to be much
utility in examining an American invasion of Iran
in the context of an overt Iranian attack that produced mass American civilian casualties. It does
not seem to be a scenario that the United States
is likely to face, nor is it an “option” for American
foreign policy because the outcry from the American people for an overwhelming military response
would drown out all other possible approaches.
The more challenging scenario for the United
States, and one that is still a potential policy option, is to mount an invasion of Iran without an
outrageous provocation, simply to eliminate Iran
as a source of problems in the Middle East. In this
situation, Washington would be effectively deciding to “go it alone” because it will be too difficult to
create the circumstances that would result in any
meaningful aid from other countries. It is this scenario that is most relevant to this study, and therefore the scenario that will be treated below.

Diplomatic Requirements
Given the context laid out above, the diplomatic requirements for an invasion of Iran would

32

appear to be impossible and therefore irrelevant.
If the United States decides to invade Iran without some dramatic Iranian provocation, the
likelihood of international support will be slim
to none. To be blunt, Israel is probably the only
country that would publicly support an American invasion of Iran, and because of its difficult
circumstances, it would not be in a position
to furnish much assistance of any kind to the
United States. Many Arab states would welcome
the demise of the Islamic Republic in private,
but probably none would publicly support what
would be widely considered an illegitimate action and one more act of American aggression
against another Muslim state. All of them would
be terrified that the result would be as harmful
to them as the invasion and botched occupation
of Iraq. The Europeans, Russians, Chinese, and
entire third world could be counted on to vehemently oppose another rogue act of American
unilateralism.
As a result, the United States would have to opt
for an invasion in the expectation that it would
have effectively no support from any of Iran’s
neighbors. The Gulf states would warn the United
States not to do it and probably would prevent the
use of American bases in their countries for the
operation. No Iraqi or Afghan government, no
matter how beholden to the United States, would
want to risk supporting a war that so few of their
people, their neighbors, or their Islamic brethren
would support. The Russians would likely come
down hard on the Caucasus and Central Asian
states not to support another act of American
aggression so close to their borders—although
this might just be enough to provoke countries
like Georgia and Azerbaijan to allow the United
States some modest basing rights in expectation
of American protection against Moscow.

Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has suggested that they have even moved forward to the point where they have
enough low-enriched uranium to make the highly enriched uranium for a bomb. Steven R. Hurst, “Mullen: Iran Has Fissile Materials for a
Bomb,” Associated Press, March 2, 2009.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

67

Military Requirements
As with Iraq and Afghanistan, the military requirements for an invasion of Iran could prove
deceptive. The invasion itself would be a major
military operation, but one well within the capability of American forces. Once in, however,
a long-term commitment would be necessary,
which would greatly increase the military requirements.
Although Iran’s armed forces are roughly twice as
large as Saddam’s were in 2003 (750,000 to 1 million in the Iranian armed forces today compared
to about 400,000 to 500,000 in Iraq’s various military services back then) and probably would perform somewhat better, they are clearly outclassed
by the American military. Consequently, an initial invasion force might be comparable to that
employed against Iraq in 2003. Four U.S. divisions and a British division spearheaded the 2003
invasion and disposed of the Iraqi dictator and
provoked the dissolution of his military and police forces in a matter of weeks. A fifth American
division aided in the latter stages of the invasion;
all told, about 200,000 Western military personnel were involved.
Against Iran, a U.S. invasion force would face two
primary military obstacles: insurgents and terrain. Iran is a country principally of mountains
and deserts—two of the most difficult military
terrain types. In addition, Iran has considerable
experience with guerrilla warfare through its long
association with Hizballah and the support it
provided for the latter’s (successful) guerrilla war
against Israel in southern Lebanon. After watching the American blitzkrieg to Baghdad, the Iranians have concluded that the best way to fight
the U.S. military would be through a protracted
insurgency, bleeding American forces (especially
as they wend their way through the long, difficult
mountain chains that fence in the Iranian heartland) and wearing them down.

68

To deal with the terrain and Iran’s likely defensive
strategy, an American invasion of Iran would require a variety of different kinds of forces. First,
it would probably involve a significant contingent of Marines (two to four regimental combat
teams, or about 15,000 to 30,000 Marines) to
seize a beachhead and then a major port at one
of four or five general locations where such a
landing could be staged along the Iranian coastline. To get past the mountains, the United States
would then want large numbers of air mobile
forces—the brigades of the 101st Air Assault Division and the 82nd Airborne Division, and possibly the 173rd Airborne Brigade as well. Beyond
that, the United States would want at least one,
and possibly as many as three, heavy armored divisions for the drive on Tehran itself (depending
on the extent to which the Marines and air mobile units are tied down holding the landing area
and mountain passes open, as well as providing
route security for the massive logistical effort that
would be needed to supply the American expedition). Again, this suggests a force roughly comparable to that employed for Operation Iraqi Freedom: four to six divisions amounting to 200,000
to 250,000 troops.
Assuming that Washington receives little or no
support from neighboring states to mount an
invasion, a large naval commitment would also
be required (one thing that would be different
from the invasion of Iraq). It is unlikely that the
United States could move forward with an enormous military operation without the Iranian
government getting a sense of what was headed
their way. This being the case, the United States
would have to expect that the Iranians would
fight back with everything they had, and under these circumstances, the Iranian naval and
air forces would do everything they could to
close the Strait of Hormuz and otherwise attack
American naval forces to prevent them from
landing U.S. ground forces on Iranian soil. Iran
certainly has some potentially dangerous capa-

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

bilities, but if the U.S. Navy and Air Force bring
their full might to bear, they could methodically
crush Iran’s air and sea defenses in a matter of
weeks, with relatively few losses. However, this
will require a major commitment of American
minesweeping, surface warfare, and (especially)
air assets.
Beyond this, the navy would likely have to contribute much greater air support to the ground
campaign than was the case for the invasions of
either Iraq or Afghanistan. Certainly, some U.S.
aircraft (like B-2 Stealth bombers) could fly from
the continental United States (and Washington
might get British permission to use the island of
Diego Garcia for B-1s, B-52s, and tankers), but
unless the GCC states, Iraq, and/or Central Asian
countries could be persuaded to allow the U.S.
Air Force to operate from nearby airfields, the
vast majority of American aircraft would have
to operate from carriers in the Persian Gulf and
North Arabian Sea. Given the extent to which
modern U.S. ground operations rely on air support (including during occupation and counterinsurgency campaigns), this suggests that three
or more carriers would need to be committed
to this campaign, at least until Iranian air bases
could be secured and developed to handle U.S.
Air Force planes.
Similarly, if the United States were denied access
to its many bases in the Persian Gulf region, as
seems likely, the navy would have to bring in everything needed to support the invasion, and U.S.
engineers would have to build facilities at Iranian
ports to make them capable of supporting a massive force.
Indeed, because it is likely that the United States
would have little regional support, because the
distances involved would be much greater than
in Iraq (distances from major Iranian ports to
Tehran are anywhere from one and a half to three
times as great as the distance from the Kuwaiti

border to Baghdad), and because of the much
more difficult terrain, the logistical requirements
for an invasion of Iran could be considerably
more demanding than those for an invasion of
Iraq.
Finally, it is worth noting that this undertaking
would likely create a desperate need for a range of
specialized forces that are already in short supply.
Special forces units would be in high demand for
an invasion of Iran, but that would mean diverting them from Iraq and Afghanistan, where they
are also desperately needed. And if the supply of
Arabic speakers was inadequate for the demands
of the war in Iraq, it will seem luxurious in comparison to the numbers of Farsi speakers available in the U.S. military and the government at
large (despite a heroic effort by the Defense Language Institute to turn out more Farsi speakers
since 2001).

Requirements of the Occupation
Given the significant (but decreasing) U.S. commitment in Iraq and the considerable (and increasing) U.S. commitment in Afghanistan, assembling an invasion force for Iran would be a
daunting task. However, it would pale compared
to the needs of the postconflict security and reconstruction mission.
This will likely prove true even if Washington has
learned the lessons of Iraq and mounts the invasion and occupation of Iran exactly as it should
have done in Iraq. All low-intensity conflict operations, whether a counterinsurgency campaign
or a stability operation like securing postinvasion
Iran, require relatively large numbers of security
forces because the sine qua non of success is securing the civilian populace against widespread
violence. Scholars and counterinsurgency experts have suggested that it takes about 20 security personnel per 1,000 people to secure civilians
against insurgencies and other forms of violence

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

69

common in postconflict reconstruction.33 This
ratio suggests that an occupation force of 1.4 million troops would be needed for Iran.
There is reason to believe that high-quality troops
with lavish support assets (like the U.S. military)
can get away with less than the canonical figure.
However, even if the United States, by relying
on far superior training, technology, and tactics,
could cut that number in half, the remainder still
represents essentially the entire active duty component of the U.S. Army and Marine Corps. Even
if it were only necessary to maintain such a large
force in Iran for the first six months, after which
the United States could begin drawing down its
forces quickly (as experience in the Balkans and
even Iraq suggests is possible), such a commitment would certainly require a massive mobilization of the National Guard and both the Army
and Marine Reserves. It might necessitate their
total mobilization for at least six to twelve months
and might also require major redeployments away
from Iraq and Afghanistan.
Again, assuming a best-case scenario in which
the proper application of the lessons learned from
Iraq and Afghanistan enables the invasion and
occupation of Iran to go more easily and be more
peaceful and successful, it would take several
years to establish a stable, legitimate government
with competent, loyal security forces that can take
over the security of their country from the United

33

70

States. During that time, the United States would
doubtless have to maintain 100,000 to 200,000
troops in Iran, even under ideal circumstances of
full Iranian cooperation and minimal resistance
(or even criminality). If one assumes that during the same period, total U.S. military commitments in Iraq and Afghanistan will also remain
in the 100,000 to 150,000 troop range (with the
assumption of a declining commitment to Iraq
and a growing commitment to Afghanistan, albeit
smaller than the one in Iraq at its peak), it is hard
to imagine how the current level of American
ground forces could sustain such deployments
over the period of years that would be required.
Only a major, rapid increase in the size of the
armed forces would make that possible without
destroying the National Guard and military reserve systems—an increase that perhaps would
necessitate some form of partial conscription.
Moreover, it obviously would be unwise to assume the best case. The Bush Administration’s
insistence that only the best case was possible in
Iraq lies at the root of the concatenation of mistakes that produced the worst case in Iraq from
2003 to 2006. Iranians are fiercely nationalistic,
and while many would welcome the end of their
current regime and the establishment of a better
relationship with the United States, the evidence
suggests that most would fiercely oppose a U.S.
invasion. Accounting for more realistic scenarios
increases the challenges and requirements for

 ruce Hoffman, “Insurgency and Counterinsurgency in Iraq,” RAND Corp., June 2004; Kalev I. Sepp, “Best Practices in Counterinsurgency,”
B
Military Review 85, no. 3 (May–June 2005): 9; James T. Quinlivan, “The Burden of Victory: The Painful Arithmetic of Stability Operations,”
RAND Review, Summer 2003, available at <http://www.rand.org/publications/randreview/issues/summer2003/burden.html>. Also, James T.
Quinlivan, “Force Requirements in Stability Operations,” Parameters (Winter 1995): 56–69. Quinlivan has demonstrated that stabilizing a
country requires roughly twenty security personnel (troops and police) per thousand inhabitants, just as counterinsurgency operations do.
In his words, the objective “is not to destroy an enemy but to provide security for residents so that they have enough confidence to manage
their daily affairs and to support a government authority of their own.” Even in Iraq, this “canonical” figure has proven valid. Iraq’s
population outside of the Kurdish zone—which was adequately secured by the Kurdish peshmerga (fighters) and thus never experienced the
same levels of violence as the rest of the country—was roughly 23 million people. This would suggest the need for 460,000 committed
security personnel. Although U.S. troops working with small numbers of competent and reliable Iraqi security forces were able to secure
large swathes of the population within six to twelve months of the start of the Surge, the change in U.S. strategy and tactics, the end of the
Battle of Baghdad, and the onset of the Anbar awakening (all of which occurred in late 2006 and early 2007), they were not able to secure the
entire country, and most of southern Iraq—with nearly 40 percent of Iraq’s population—lay beyond their control. Only when the total of
U.S. and competent Iraqi troops exceeded 450,000-500,000 in early 2008 were these forces able to expand their control to the south without
jeopardizing the gains made in the center and west.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

the occupation of Iran even more, to levels that
realistically only could be met by a major, rapid
expansion of the U.S. armed forces, for which the
American people appear to have little interest.

would likely be as mismanaged and tragic as it
was in Iraq from 2003 to 2006.

Political Requirements

The following are the advantages and disadvantages of the Invasion approach.

Because the military requirements of the occupation and reconstruction of Iran are so daunting,
and the likelihood of international support in this
scenario appears so low, the first and most important requirement would be the overwhelming political support of the American people for an invasion. Simply put, compared to U.S. involvement
in Iraq, the invasion and reconstruction of Iran is
likely to be a more taxing task—even assuming
that the United States avoids repeating the mistakes of Iraq—and there will be even less foreign
assistance to accomplish it.
This means that the president would have to
have such strong and enduring support from the
American people that he would be able to conduct the invasion and occupation of Iran employing essentially only American resources and in the
face of widespread international animosity. He
might need to mobilize fully the National Guard
as well as the Army, Marine, and possibly Navy
Reserves and keep them in uniform for months
or even years if there is considerable Iranian resistance, as there may well be. In worst-case scenarios, the president might even need to ask the
American people to accept some form of limited
conscription. If the occupation of Iran were to go
badly, there might be considerable American casualties for long periods of time—possibly even
more than in Iraq at its worst because of the more
difficult terrain, the likely greater hostility of the
populace, and the greater proficiency in guerrilla
warfare of the Iranian military.
If the president can secure this kind of support,
an invasion of Iran is a viable option. Without
such support, the invasion and occupation of Iran

Pros and Cons

Advantages:
 Th
 e most important and obvious advantage
of mounting an invasion of Iran is that it
would “solve” all of Washington’s current
problems with Tehran. Iran’s nuclear program would be obliterated. The regime that
supported so many terrorist, insurgent, and
revolutionary groups that sought to harm
the United States and/or its regional allies
would be gone. Hizballah, Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, and the like would
have lost one of their most important backers. And Washington would no longer have
to worry about how to deal with a regime
it considers both threatening and maddeningly opaque.
 M
 oreover, a policy focused entirely on
mounting an invasion of Iran would be
implemented entirely under American
control. Washington might find itself in a
position where it would not need to worry about convincing reluctant allies, since
there would be no expectation that they
could be convinced nor any expectation
that they would help. Furthermore, Washington would not need to persuade the Iranian leadership (or even Iranian dissidents)
to cooperate with the United States—it
could force them to do so, or simply get rid
of them and bring in a whole new group.
 F
 inally, it would mean employing the most
powerful, most skillful, and most decisive tool in the U.S. strategic toolkit—the

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

71

American armed forces—to “fix” the Iran
problem. Neither American covert operatives nor diplomats nor aid mavens have
had a track record as good as U.S. soldiers,
sailors, airmen, and Marines over the years.

Disadvantages:
 An invasion of Iran would be extremely
costly in a whole variety of ways. Iran is
arguably a more complex, convoluted, and
conflict-ridden society than either Iraq or
Afghanistan. But like Iraq, it would be too
important to be cast aside after deposing
the regime and razing all its nuclear and
terrorist-support facilities. The invasion itself would be large and costly, but the effort
needed to occupy, secure, and then build a
new Iranian state—one capable of governing the country effectively without falling
into chaos or inciting new anti-Americanism—would be far more so. Even if Washington has learned all of the lessons of Iraq
and Afghanistan and handles an invasion
of Iran in a much better fashion, this option
would cost tens—if not hundreds—of billions of dollars a year for five to ten years.
It would require the commitment of the
better part of U.S. ground forces for several
years, and could necessitate a much greater
commitment and expansion of American
ground forces than at any time since the
Second World War. It might even require
the institution of partial conscription for
some period of time and would divert badly needed assets away from both Iraq and
Afghanistan.
 Another inevitable cost would be in American lives lost (not to mention Iranian civilian deaths). Hundreds or possibly thousands of American military personnel
would die in the invasion itself. Thereafter,
casualty levels would depend dramatically

72

on both the extent of Iranian resistance
and the competence of the American
security effort. The remarkable success of
American forces in Iraq since 2007 demonstrates that the right numbers of troops
employing the right tactics in pursuit of the
right strategy can secure a country at much
lower cost in blood than inadequate numbers of troops improperly employed. Prior
to the Surge—and during its heated early
months when U.S. troops were fighting to
regain control of Iraq’s streets—American
military deaths were running at 70 to 80
a month. Once that fight had been won,
they fell to roughly 5 to 15 a month. This
suggests that U.S. casualties during the occupation and reconstruction of Iran could
vary enormously; however, only in the
best-case scenario—where the securing of
Iran is as smooth as the NATO securing of
Bosnia—should policymakers expect minimal casualties. In more plausible but still
favorable scenarios where Iranian resistance approximates Iraqi levels of violence
after the Surge, the United States should
still expect a dozen soldiers and Marines to
be killed each month, on average, for several years. In worst-case scenarios, in which
the United States mishandles operations in
Iran as badly as it did initially in Iraq, those
numbers could run into the hundreds each
month, or worse.
 Washington would have to expect Tehran
to retaliate against American targets outside
of Iran. Iran has a more formidable ballistic missile arsenal than Saddam had in 1991
and a far more extensive and capable network to mount terrorist attacks beyond its
borders. Whether the Iranians could pull
off a catastrophic attack—along the lines of
9/11—would depend on how much time
they had to prepare for such an operation
and how well developed their contingency

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

plans were at the time. Washington has long
believed that Tehran maintains extensive
contingency plans for all manner of terrorist
attacks against American targets for just such
an eventuality, and may even have practiced
them at various times. Even if such attacks
ended with the fall of the regime, since an
invasion might take as much as six months
from the time the first U.S. Navy warships
began to clear the Strait of Hormuz to the
removal of the clerical regime, the United
States would have to prepare to prevent such
attacks—and live with the failure to do so—
for at least this time period.
 In addition to the potentially heavy costs, an
invasion also entails running a very significant set of risks. As noted, Iranian society
is hardly pacific. A botched reconstruction,
like the one in Iraq, could unleash a Pandora’s box of problems both inside the country and out. Various Iranian ethnic groups
might attempt to declare independence, inevitably setting off a civil war with the country’s Persian majority and creating the risk
of drawing in Iran’s various neighbors to
protect their own interests. As in Iraq, Iran’s
oil wealth would be a tremendous driver of
both internal conflict and external intervention. Chaos and conflict could jeopardize Iran’s oil and gas exports, and would
certainly complicate the security problems
of Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan.
 Under the circumstances postulated in this
chapter, a U.S. invasion of Iran could antagonize much of the world. In the short
term, this could jeopardize the international cooperation Washington so desperately needs to deal with the international

financial crisis and a dozen or more pressing geostrategic crises. It may be difficult for other countries to heed America’s
wishes on Darfur, the Arab-Israeli conflict,
North Korea, alternative energy and global
warming, NATO enlargement, or other
similarly thorny issues in the aftermath of
an invasion of Iran that many may see as
even less justified than the invasion of Saddam Husayn’s Iraq.
 M
 oreover, an invasion of Iran has the potential to damage the longer-term strategic
interests of the United States. Such an invasion could well redefine America’s position
in the international order in a particularly
deleterious manner. Especially given that
such a war would probably have less support than the invasion of Iraq, and would be
undertaken by an administration other than
that of George W. Bush, it would likely loom
far larger than the Iraq War in the thinking
of other people and governments. It could
well settle the debate over whether the United States is an aggressive, unilateralist imperial power or a mostly benign and uniquely
unselfish hegemon. Americans have always
seen themselves as the latter, and there are
many people around the world who still
view the United States that way despite the
events of 2001-2008—in large part because
some agree that there were justifications for
the war in Iraq, and others simply blame
American actions on an aberrant administration. An invasion of Iran could eliminate the lingering basis for that support and
profoundly alter global perspectives on the
United States, which over time would inevitably translate into commensurate shifts in
policy against this country.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

73

Chapter 4

THE OSIRAQ OPTION
Airstrikes

B

ecause there is little expectation that the
Obama Administration would be interested
in paying the costs and running the risks associated with an invasion—let alone convincing the
American people to do so at a time of national
economic crisis—those who believe that force
is the best, or even the only, way to address the
problems of Iran are more likely to advocate a
more limited campaign of airstrikes against key
Iranian targets. In particular, such a policy would
most likely target Iran’s various nuclear facilities
(possibly including key weapons delivery systems
such as ballistic missiles) in a greatly expanded
version of the Israeli preventive strikes against the
Iraqi nuclear program at Tuwaitha in 1981 (usually referred to by the name of the French reactor under construction, the Osiraq reactor) and
against the nascent Syrian program at Dayr azZawr in 2007. The United States might be able to
provide a reasonable justification for such a campaign by building on the fact that the UN Security
Council has repeatedly proscribed Iran’s nuclear
enrichment activities in resolutions enacted under Chapter VII of the UN Charter, which are
binding on all member states.34 Moreover, there is

34

74

some expectation that a determined air campaign
against Iran’s nuclear facilities might set back its
program by a meaningful period of time—at least
some years.
The United States might mount further strikes
against Iranian command and control, terrorist
support, or even conventional military targets.
However, these would more likely be staged in response to Iranian attacks against the United States
or its allies that were mounted in retaliation for
the initial round of American strikes on Iranian
nuclear facilities. Simply destroying these other
Iranian assets would have little material impact
on American interests or Iran’s ability to harm
those interests. Terrorist camps, ministries, and
headquarters buildings can all be rebuilt quickly,
and it is unlikely that any damage done to them
or the personnel within would somehow cripple
Iran’s ability to subvert regional governments
or wage asymmetric warfare against the United
States or its allies. The United States could certainly obliterate large chunks of the Iranian conventional military, which would take a long time
for Iran to replace, but Iran’s conventional forces

 e recognize that a sufficient legal basis for such an attack does not yet exist because the resolutions enacted so far specifically rule out the
W
use of force by other member states to bring Iran into compliance with the Security Council’s demands. Consequently, if the U.S.
government were to decide to pursue this course of action, it would have to establish a stronger legal basis for its actions to meet U.S. legal
requirements before it could do so.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y T o wa r d I r a n

are so weak that they have little geopolitical value,
and therefore destroying them would have little
impact on either the American or Iranian positions in the Middle East and Southwest Asia.
Thus airstrikes against Iranian nuclear sites are
typically seen as part of a strategy meant principally to deprive it of its nuclear capabilities in a
way that diplomacy could not. Airstrikes against
these other target sets (terrorist training facilities,
command and control, and conventional military
forces) do not fit well into the concept of a disarming strike because they would not materially
weaken Iran for very long.
Alternatively, the United States could choose to attack these non-nuclear target sets in pursuit of a different strategy, a coercive one. This strategy would
not disarm Iran, but would put at risk those things
that the regime values most, in an attempt to force
Tehran to change its policy of supporting various
terrorist groups, stoking instability in the region,
and pursuing nuclear weapons. However, there is
little support in the United States for employing a
coercive strategy of repeated airstrikes against Iran
to try to force Tehran to alter its course.
In many ways, this absence is remarkable given
the long-standing support for coercive air campaigns among both air power enthusiasts and
policymakers. At various points in the past, numerous American analysts, military officers, and
political leaders have suggested an approach to
Iran that relies on coercive air campaigns; thus
its absence in the current debate is striking. The
nationalistic chauvinism, ideological fervor, and
political dysfunctions of the Islamic Republic,
coupled with the long history of coercive air campaigns failing to live up to the claims of their proponents, seem to have produced a consensus that

35

a coercive air campaign against Iran would likely
fail. Simply put, it does not seem like the Iranian
regime would be susceptible to the kind of pressure applied by coercive air power, and coercive
air campaigns are notoriously bad at successfully
compelling the target country to do what the attacking country wants.35
Consequently, the Airstrikes option against Iran
has focused principally on a campaign intended to
disarm Iran—to strip it of its nuclear capability—in
the expectation that this would greatly reduce for
some period of time the threat Iran poses to the
United States and its allies. Of course, a key question debated even by its advocates is “how long a
period of time,” which in turn raises the question of
whether this option is sufficient by itself to address
effectively U.S. concerns about Iran, or whether it is
merely the first piece of a more complex approach.
Some proponents suggest that airstrikes constitute
a stand-alone policy in that the United States could
simply resume its attacks whenever the Iranians
began to rebuild their nuclear facilities, as most
observers suspect they would. The expectation is
that at some point, the Iranians would tire of being
bombed and give up, or the people would tire of
a regime that keeps provoking American airstrikes
and oust it. Other proponents of this policy argue
that repeated bombings of Iran would be difficult
to sustain (and might not lead to the regime’s removal), and therefore, the Airstrikes option would
be designed simply to buy time, hopefully several years, during which the United States could
orchestrate other actions against Iran—such as a
Persuasion approach that would carry the demonstrated threat of further uses of force as a very potent “stick,” or a more determined effort at regime
change that would also benefit from the demonstrated willingness of the United States to employ
force against the Iranian regime.

On the difficulties of coercive air campaigns, see Robert Pape, Bombing to Win: Air Power and Coercion in War (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell
University Press, 1996).

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

75

Goal
The goal of an air campaign would be to obliterate much or all of Iran’s nuclear program, which
is spread over a number of major nuclear energy
related sites, on the assumption that any of them
could be used to develop weapons. The list of targets
would likely include at least the well-known nuclear
research reactor at Bushehr, a range of locations related to Iran’s uranium processing and enrichment
program, and the Arak plutonium separation plant,
as well as sites believed to be involved in producing
warheads or other components for nuclear weapons. It might also include other targets involved in
developing Iran’s long-range missile force, which is
the most obvious method Iran would have of using
nuclear weapons should it acquire them.
If all of these targets were successfully destroyed,
such a military operation might delay Iran’s attainment of a nuclear weapon by a decade or more.
After Israel’s 1981 Osiraq raid, Saddam Husayn
was unable to build a “basement bomb” over the
following decade (although by the time of Operation Desert Storm in 1991, he had come close).
Such a lengthy delay might provide enough time
for Iran’s imperfect political process to produce a
new leadership before the existing one could create a bomb surreptitiously.
A more modest (or less successful) American or
Israeli aerial campaign would create havoc in the
Iranian nuclear program but would not necessarily
accomplish the physical annihilation of all facilities.
Unless Iran has large secret facilities of which Western intelligence and the IAEA are unaware, such
a campaign could also set back Iran’s nuclear program, but probably much less so than a larger and
more successful strike. It would be difficult to quantify, but a limited or less successful attack might
delay Iran’s attainment of a nuclear capability by
anywhere from one to four years. If Iran has managed to build large, secret facilities, like a second
main uranium enrichment site, the delay to Iran’s

76

attainment of its first bomb could be much less.
This would be particularly true if Iran had moved
enough uranium hexafluoride from known sites to
have fuel for the centrifuges at the second site.
In short, if Iran is presently on track to have a
nuclear bomb between 2010 and 2015, a highly
successful major air campaign in which all of
Iran’s nuclear facilities were destroyed might conceivably push back that time frame to the 20152025 range. However, a less successful strike, a
purposely more limited strike, or one that misses
major Iranian nuclear facilities because they were
unknown at the time might only push that window back to 2010-2017. It is worth underscoring
that all such time projections are rough estimates
at best, given the huge gaps in knowledge about
Iran’s nuclear program.
It is also important to note that the Airstrikes option is designed solely to limit Tehran’s capability
to destabilize the Middle East and aggressively oppose U.S. interests there by wielding nuclear weapons. It is not intended to produce regime change in
Tehran, nor is it meant to address Iran’s other problematic behavior—except in the indirect sense that
if the Iranian leadership believes that the United
States is prone to employ force against it for actions
that Washington dislikes, Tehran might rein in its
efforts across the board. However, this is hardly a
guaranteed outcome; it is just as likely that Iran
would respond by ratcheting up its problematic
behavior, both to retaliate for the American raids
and potentially to make it difficult for the United
States to maintain its military presence in the Persian Gulf. Consequently, the goal of this option is
simply to try to delay or even prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear capability in the expectation that
doing so will make Iran less of a threat.

Time Frame
To a great extent, the time frame for the Airstrikes
option against Iran depends on a set of factors

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

similar to that governing a possible invasion. In
theory, airstrikes against Iran could be mounted
in such a way that they are entirely under the control of the United States and require virtually no
foreign contributions. In this set of circumstances,
all that matters is how fast the required American
military forces can be deployed to the region—although even in this case, the desire to preserve
at least tactical secrecy (if not strategic surprise)
would likely make such deployments more time
consuming than they otherwise might be.
However, as with an invasion, airstrikes against
Iran would certainly benefit from foreign support,
particularly the willingness of regional U.S. allies
to permit the use of bases near Iran. Moreover,
because it is more likely (still a relative statement)
that the United States could secure such support
for airstrikes as opposed to an invasion, Washington may want to take the time to try to win over
its regional allies in support of the airstrikes.
This raises many of the same issues discussed in
the previous chapter regarding a provocation.
Airstrikes launched without some act of Iranian
aggression would likely find little public support
anywhere outside of Israel. Again, most Arab governments might privately cheer, but they will find
it hard to do more than that. However, if the airstrikes were launched in response to an Iranian
provocation, the United States might find Arab,
European, and Asian acquiescence, even enthusiasm, for them. Thus the more that the United
States wants international political support for
the air campaign (especially in the form of bases),
the more important it would be for these strikes
to come as a response to an act of Iranian aggression—and this means that Washington would
have to be willing to wait (perhaps indefinitely)
for the Iranians to take such an action.
As with an invasion, it would ultimately be Washington’s choice as to when to begin airstrikes
against Iran, but after that, the U.S. government
would have far less control over when this conflict

might end. In the case of an invasion, Washington
would get to set the date for the invasion and could
have some confidence that the regime would be
gone six months later; however, the United States
would then find itself committed to a potentially
open-ended reconstruction process. Similarly,
Washington could decide when and for how long
to mount airstrikes against Iran. However, implementation of this policy would not be concluded
when the smoke from the last bomb cleared. Iran
might retaliate, and the United States might feel the
need to respond to Iran’s retaliation. In conjunction, or alternatively, Iran might decide to rebuild
its nuclear program, and the United States would
have to decide whether to launch another round
of airstrikes, a potentially recurring cycle. Even if
the Iranians chose not to retaliate or rebuild, they
might not end their support for violent extremist
groups or efforts to subvert the regional status quo,
which would then require the United States to find
some other way of convincing them to desist.
In short, airstrikes could be conducted relatively
promptly, in a matter of weeks or months, and
might buy time for other options (although they
also might preclude many other options). However, as a policy, they could take years or even
decades to “succeed” and even then might only
satisfy part of the U.S. agenda.

Overview of the Policy
The core of this policy would be for the United
States to mount an air campaign lasting anywhere
from a few days to several weeks to strike at
known Iranian nuclear facilities, with many aim
points at the typical site.
Such a campaign would be well within U.S. military capabilities, but it would present a number
of important challenges. For any aerial attack to
be successful, it would naturally require good
intelligence on the locations of all major Iranian nuclear facilities. It would demand weapons

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

77

capable of reaching and destroying those facilities, including those in hardened structures well
below the surface, as well as sufficient aircraft
to carry them. It would involve an even greater
number of support aircraft—to suppress Iran’s air
defenses, shoot down its fighters, control the air
battle, carry supplies, refuel American jets flying
long distances, monitor Iranian reactions, and assess the impact of strikes. And it would require
extensive command and control, communications, and intelligence capabilities to direct, coordinate, and evaluate the strikes.
Having observed the Israeli Air Force’s virtuoso
performance against the Osiraq reactor, as well
as numerous American air campaigns in the
Middle East and the Balkans, Iran’s revolutionary regime broadly understands how the United
States would seek to mount such an effort and
has devoted considerable effort to hide, diversify,
and protect its nuclear assets. Many Iranian facilities are in hardened concrete structures and/
or are deeply underground. Some may even be
in tunnels deep within mountains, although a
number of nuclear weapons experts doubt that
major operational centrifuge complexes would be
located in such places. The National Intelligence
Estimate of 2007 assessed that if Iran were to pursue a bomb, it would likely use secret facilities
to make highly enriched uranium (although the
estimate famously concluded that Iran probably
halted any such efforts in 2003, when Iran apparently stopped working on bomb design efforts).
Iran has natural uranium deposits and has now
mastered the basic technology of uranium enrichment—at least at the theoretical level—up to
and including centrifuge enrichment, so even if
an attack were highly successful, the United States
would still have to consider the possibility that
Iran could rebuild its entire program.
Given the multiplicity of targets and the lengths to
which the regime has gone to protect them, Israel’s
1981 Osiraq strike or even its 2007 Dayr az-Zawr

78

raid in Syria are not particularly good models for
an air campaign against Iran. The attack against
Iraq’s nuclear reactor, for instance, was conducted
in a single mission by just eight bomb-dropping
Israeli F-16s and a half-dozen F-15s providing
cover. The Israelis relied on surprise, a stealthy
flight profile, and the relatively underdeveloped
Iraqi air defense network to ensure their mission’s
success. In addition, they were attacking a single
large, highly vulnerable, above-ground facility. It
might be feasible to attack Iran’s nuclear research
reactor at Bushehr in this way, but that reactor is
not the heart of the Iranian nuclear program: it is
not complemented by a reprocessing facility (since
Iran’s nuclear cooperation contract with Russia
requires that spent fuel be sent back to Russia for
treatment), and its loss would have little impact
on Iran’s uranium enrichment program. A robust
campaign against Iran’s nuclear complex would
have to contend with a large number of potential
Iranian facilities—possibly several hundred—and
an even greater number of potential aim points. A
relatively modest campaign might still target several dozen key nuclear energy related sites. Some
of these targets might have to be struck repeatedly
to allow a first detonation to begin “burrowing”
underground, exposing targets that could only be
seriously damaged on a second or third pass.
Because of the number of aim points (which would
mean relying on large numbers of nonstealthy aircraft) and the possible need for repeated strikes,
an American campaign would likely involve a deliberate effort to suppress Iranian air defenses—
something the much smaller Israeli strikes simply
avoided in 1981 and 2007. In particular, the United
States would seek to destroy large warning radars,
advanced surface-to-air missile batteries, key command and control facilities for Iran’s air defenses,
and possibly the most dangerous Iranian fighter
squadrons (such as those employing F-14s and
MiG-29s). Consequently, an all-out air campaign
could involve thousands of sorties by manned aircraft, unmanned drones, and cruise missiles over

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

several days, while even a more limited operation
would probably require hundreds of sorties. By way
of comparison, Operation Desert Fox—a three-day
air campaign against Iraq in 1998 that targeted 100
Iraqi facilities (many of them air defense sites, but
about a dozen were weapons of mass destruction
facilities)—required 650 manned aircraft sorties
and 415 cruise missile strikes.
It is beyond the scope of this paper to lay out all
possible targets for an American air campaign
against the Iranian nuclear program, but it is useful to enumerate the most important ones to give a
sense of what the U.S. strikes would aim to destroy.
These would likely include the following sites:

uranium to highly enriched uranium). Iran
is already moving to install more advanced
P-2 centrifuges, which have two and a half
times the productive capacity of a P-1. The
main centrifuge hall at Natanz is located 10
to 20 meters underground, but since 2007,
the Iranians have been digging even deeper
tunnels into mountainsides near Natanz
and may move centrifuge cascades and/
or uranium storage facilities there, where
they would be even better protected against
American penetrator munitions.

 Bushehr Research Reactor. Although this
is nothing but a research reactor, it has received fuel from Russia and could soon be
operational, giving it the theoretical capacity to make enough plutonium for dozens
of bombs.

 Esfahan Nuclear Technology Center.
This is Iran’s main uranium fuel fabrication
plant that produces the uranium hexafluoride gas feedstock for the centrifuges at Natanz. Although this facility would doubtless be a key target, Iran already possesses
enough uranium hexafluoride for dozens
of nuclear weapons without needing to
produce any more.

 Arak Heavy-Water Reactor/Plutonium
Separation Facility. This is Iran’s principal plutonium separation facility, although
it is much further from completion than
the Bushehr Research Reactor. This facility
will produce purer plutonium than Bushehr does, making it easier to employ in a
weapon. The location also hosts a nearby
heavy-water production plant.

 Parchin Nuclear Weapons Development
Center. Parchin is a massive military research and testing facility. Parts of it are
believed to be associated with the nuclear
program, including explosives testing. In
addition to Parchin, U.S. airstrikes would
likely target other Iranian facilities believed
to be related to warhead design and production.

 Natanz Uranium Enrichment Plant. The
uranium enrichment operation here is the
centerpiece of Iran’s nuclear program and
the facility of greatest concern to the international community. Natanz was designed
to house as many as 50,000 gas centrifuges,
although only several thousand of the more
primitive P-1 models were operating by
early 2009 (still enough to make a bomb’s
worth of enriched uranium per year if reconfigured from producing low-enriched

 Karaj and Tehran Nuclear Research Centers. These are important research and development facilities for the Iranian nuclear
program. Both consist of about a dozen
buildings, mostly office buildings, labs, and
storage facilities. Because they are located
in the suburbs of the Iranian capital, they
create a considerable risk of collateral damage and require a major effort to suppress
the fairly extensive (by Iranian standards)
air defenses of Tehran.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

79

 Advanced missile design, production, and
testing facilities such as those at Karaj,
Semnan, Sirjan, Esfahan, Shahroud, and
the Shaid Hemat facility near Tehran.
 Any centrifuge production facilities, if U.S.
intelligence is able to discover them.

Scaling Down
Even a campaign designed to go after this relatively limited target set would be a very large
operation, probably on the scale of Desert Fox.
Nevertheless, it would be smaller in scope than
the kind of campaign military planners would
prefer. From their perspective, a much larger
operation designed to hit every facility possibly
associated with the nuclear or missile programs
would be preferable because this would provide
the greatest confidence that the goal of the operation—setting back the Iranian nuclear program
by a number of years—could be achieved. However, the United States may feel it is not sustainable to conduct an operation for the length of
time needed to complete such a large campaign.
A number of factors may contribute to this assessment: if other military contingencies made
it impossible to bring sufficient aircraft to bear,
if inadequate intelligence meant that the president did not feel comfortable bombing targets
beyond those listed above, or if the United States
wanted to maximize the element of surprise (to
prevent Iran from concealing key elements of its
nuclear program and/or to minimize American
casualties) by mounting the operation without a
buildup of forces in the region. As such, Washington might opt for such a “limited” variant of
the policy.
As noted, even in this case, a small raid on the
scale of Iraq in 1981 or Syria in 2007 would not
be enough, given the sheer number of locations
(including underground facilities) to be struck.
Instead, the United States would likely conduct its

80

“limited” operation in multiple stages. Dozens of
cruise missile attacks—precisely timed to precede
the arrival of manned aircraft—would begin the
assault by targeting the most crucial and capable
radar sites, as well as other relatively soft parts of
the target set, such as above-ground communications centers. These would be followed by scores
of shorter-range fighter bombers (Navy F-18s,
possibly coupled with Air Force F-15s and F-16s
if bases in the Persian Gulf were available) and
several dozen B-1 and B-2 bombers flying from
Diego Garcia, if it is available, or from the United
States, if it is not. Many of these aircraft would
carry deep-penetrating munitions and would be
tasked to launch multiple weapons against a single aim point to ensure that deeply buried targets
were destroyed.
No matter how confident Washington was of
achieving surprise, the United States would want
to employ a number of air superiority fighters to
counter any Iranian fighters that got into the air,
and airborne warning and control aircraft to orchestrate the air battle, along with aerial surveillance platforms to monitor Iranian ground activity. Military planners would also need satellites
and unmanned intelligence and surveillance platforms, possibly supplemented by manned reconnaissance missions, to assess the damage done in
the initial strike—and their findings might necessitate follow-on strikes. This entire effort would
inevitably require considerable in-flight refueling
from tankers based at Diego Garcia or wherever
else possible. As a last resort, smaller navy tankers flying from carriers could at least refuel their
own jets.
Such an operation would hardly seem “limited”
to the Iranians, but it would be relatively small
from the perspective of American air campaigns.
It would have a reasonable likelihood of significantly degrading Iran’s highest value nuclear targets, but it would be far from guaranteed to meet
the goals of this policy. Moreover, by going lean

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

and emphasizing surprise over mass, such an
approach would run a number of risks. Fighter
cover would have to be minimized in order to
achieve surprise and to maximize the basing
available for attack aircraft. Consequently, Iranian
fighters might get lucky and knock down one or
more American planes. The United States would
not have enough Stealth bombers to conduct even
this smaller raid exclusively; it would also need to
use more detectable bombers and/or navy attack
jets in the mission. This would raise the potential for American aircraft to fall prey to Iranian
air defenses, although Iran’s surface-to-air missile
arsenal is very limited in both its coverage and capability. Perhaps regional states would allow the
United States to fly fighter cover for the operation from land bases or—best of all for American
planners—to fly stealthy F-22s that could conduct
much of the strike themselves. But it could be
hard to secure such support, as discussed below.
Overall, this operation would be feasible for the
United States, but its overall effectiveness would
be hard to predict, and aircraft losses could not
be ruled out.

Scaling Up
Alternatively, Washington might decide that if it
is going to mount an air campaign against Iran—
with all the costs and risks this course of action
will inevitably entail—it should at least make sure
that the campaign itself is powerful enough to
maximize the likelihood that the United States
achieves its objectives.
A more comprehensive air campaign would likely
be structured and sequenced somewhat differently than the scaled-down approach. In the first
wave of sorties, some strikes might be directed
against key Iranian nuclear facilities, especially those containing assets that are believed to
be easy for Iran to move. But this type of campaign would likely focus its initial attacks on destroying Iranian air defenses, including radars,

surface-to-air missiles, and fighter aircraft, in order to establish air supremacy and thereby facilitate additional waves of bombing directed at the
nuclear targets themselves. The follow-on waves
would likely strike and then restrike the targets
listed above to ensure their destruction, but they
would also go after dozens of other Iranian targets that either play a more peripheral role in the
nuclear program or for which the evidence of a tie
to the nuclear program is less certain. Moreover,
some sorties might be directed—or merely held
in reserve—against Iranian air and naval forces
deployed along the Strait of Hormuz to prevent
them from attempting to close the strait in response to the American strikes.
Even in this approach, there would be incentives
to achieve surprise, so the United States might
want to begin the operation with only a single
aircraft carrier, or else time its start to an instance when one carrier was relieving another, so
that two would be temporarily present. The real
problems would come if the United States felt it
needed three or four carriers for this operation.
(It is worth noting that six U.S. carriers supported
Operation Desert Storm, two supported Desert
Fox, and three supported Iraqi Freedom—and all
of those campaigns were able to count on the use
of Persian Gulf ground bases that might not be
available for the campaign against Iran considered in this chapter.) Because it takes weeks to deploy a carrier to the Persian Gulf, and because it is
very difficult to conceal a carrier’s destination, the
conflicting demands of surprise and mass would
create a dilemma for a large air campaign against
Iran. The best solution would be the availability of
land bases in the Persian Gulf, Central Asia, and
the Caucasus, to which air force jets could be rapidly deployed. However, because the United States
may find little overt support for any military campaign against Iran, this option might not be available. In that case, Washington will have to decide
whether surprise or mass is more important and
deploy its aircraft carriers accordingly.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

81

Facing Iranian Retaliation
It would not be inevitable that Iran would lash out
violently in response to an American air campaign,
but no American president should blithely assume
that it would not. Iran has not always retaliated for
American attacks against it. Initially after the destruction of Pan Am Flight 103 in December 1988,
many believed that this was Iranian retaliation for
the shooting down of Iran Air Flight 455 by the
American cruiser USS Vincennes in July of that
year. However, today all of the evidence points to
Libya as the culprit for that terrorist attack, which if
true would suggest that Iran never did retaliate for
its loss. Nor did Iran retaliate for America’s Operation Praying Mantis, which in 1988 resulted in the
sinking of most of Iran’s major warships. Consequently, it is possible that Iran would simply choose
to play the victim if attacked by the United States,
assuming (probably correctly) that this would win
the clerical regime considerable sympathy both domestically and internationally.
However, it is at least equally likely that Iran
would shoot back as best it could. As noted above,
Iran may attempt to shut down the Strait of Hormuz in response, but this seems unlikely. Doing
so would threaten the international oil market
and so lose Iran whatever international sympathy
it might have gained for being the victim of an
American attack. Of greater importance, American air and naval capabilities are so overwhelming that it would simply be a matter of time before
the U.S. military could wipe out its Iranian counterparts and reopen the strait. The result would
simply add insult to injury for Tehran. Especially
given that under these circumstances, American
naval and air forces available in the Persian Gulf
will be vastly more powerful than is normally the
case, such a move by the Iranians would appear to
be playing right into Washington’s hands.
It seems far more likely that Tehran might
choose to respond in kind (roughly) by lobbing

82

ballistic missiles at U.S. bases, oil facilities, and
other high-value targets located in the Gulf states,
Israel, or other U.S. ally states. This contingency
would merit deploying considerable antiballistic
missile defense assets in the region and providing
as much warning to U.S. allies as possible. However, because many Iranian leaders would likely
be looking to emerge from the fighting in as advantageous a strategic position as possible, and
because they would likely calculate that playing
the victim would be their best route to that goal,
they might well refrain from such retaliatory missile attacks.
The most likely method of Iranian retaliation
would be some form of terrorist attack. It could
be immediate and coincident with the U.S. air
campaign. As noted in the previous chapter, Iran
is believed to have extensive contingency plans
for attacks on American targets, and it might be
possible for Tehran to execute some of these operations in a matter of days. Such retaliation also
could come well after the fact. In particular, if
Tehran wanted to retaliate in spectacular fashion,
especially by conducting attacks on American soil
to reciprocate for the American attacks on Iranian
soil, it would likely take months to arrange. Major
terrorist operations require extensive planning
and preparatory work, and they are especially difficult to execute in the United States ever since
the security improvements that followed 9/11.
Consequently, an indivisible part of the Airstrikes
option would be to take a wide range of steps to
harden U.S. targets against the possibility of Iranian retaliation by terrorist attack—steps that
would have to be maintained for many months
thereafter.

Follow-Up or Follow-On?
The last piece of this policy option is the question
of what follows the airstrikes. It is hard to imagine
that even a couple of weeks of American airstrikes,
encompassing thousands of sorties, would simply

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

end the problem of the Iranian nuclear program
forever. It is highly likely that, at least initially, the
Iranian population would rally around the hardest of the hard-liners in their government—those
people most antagonistic to the United States—in
response to what Iranians would inevitably see as
an unprovoked and unjustified act of aggression, no
matter what preceded the American strikes. Those
leaders, riding a crest of support for them and fury
at the United States, would almost certainly insist
that Iran begin to rebuild its nuclear program, if
only out of sheer defiance of the United States. Of
course, they would have a very powerful new argument to employ: the United States would not dare
to attack us in such a fashion if we actually had a
nuclear weapon. They might use the attacks to justify pulling Iran out of the Non-Proliferation Treaty,
thereby eliminating the ability of international arms
control experts to monitor Iran’s nuclear facilities
and provide much-needed information about the
status, location, and progress of Iran’s program.
If the United States were to adopt the Airstrikes
option, it would have to anticipate that the initial round of airstrikes would not eliminate the
problem altogether, and so the policy would have
to include a series of next steps to cover the long
term. As already noted, some proponents of the
Airstrikes option argue that the right long-term
approach is simply repeated airstrikes: every time
the Iranians begin to rebuild their nuclear program, strike again to knock it down. They argue
that, if nothing else, this would simply keep pushing the operational date of an Iranian nuclear
weapon farther and farther into the future. At
best, repeated airstrikes might eventually convince the Iranian people that their leaders’ policies were bringing ruin on their country, and so
they would overthrow the regime.
Other proponents suggest that the initial round of
airstrikes (and possibly a follow-on round) would
be intended simply to buy time for other options,
particularly regime change. Still others, who tend

to be leery of the military option against Iran,
have suggested that the Airstrikes option would
only make sense if the United States could ensure that a tight new Containment regime could
be imposed immediately afterward to hinder
Iran’s ability to reconstitute its nuclear program
or to retaliate, and thereby avoid the need for
additional American military strikes. In short,
these approaches do not consider Airstrikes as a
stand-alone option but rather as one element in a
more complex strategy, a topic explored at greater
length in the conclusion to this volume.

Requirements
Military
In many ways, the military requirements of the
Airstrikes option are the least taxing and probably
the easiest for the United States to satisfy (which is
partly why this option is appealing to many people).
America’s massive air and naval forces are more
than adequate to handle the military aspects of this
option and are so able to accomplish the missions
that there would be multiple ways in which they
could do so. This creates considerable flexibility in
the military leg of this policy stool. It means that
the military component can, and probably would
have to be, tailored to suit the diplomatic and political requirements, which would likely prove to be
far more limiting. But, as described in some detail
above, whatever the diplomatic and political circumstances, the U.S. military would undoubtedly
be able to generate the forces necessary.
Instead, in the military realm, a key concern
would be whether any of Iran’s neighbors would
be willing to allow U.S. aircraft to use their air
bases. If not, then the United States would have
to rely far more heavily on aircraft carriers, which
in turn raises the potential trade-off between surprise and mass. That trade-off is intimately intertwined with the list of targets that the United
States would seek to hit: the longer that list, the

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

83

more planes and cruise missiles would be needed.
Similarly, if the president did not believe that he
could sustain this campaign politically and diplomatically for very long, the military would have to
adjust the ambitions of the operations.

Diplomatic
The United States would have two overriding diplomatic objectives should it decide to conduct airstrikes against Iran. In an immediate sense, it would
need to generate as much support for the attacks
as possible, especially among Iran’s neighbors, in
hopes of securing the use of their airfields to base
American jets. As noted above, the availability of
these bases is a very important consideration for
many key military aspects of the airstrikes, such as
their size, duration, and ability to achieve surprise.
In a broader and ultimately more important
sense, U.S. diplomacy would have to ensure that
the air campaign against Iran does not derail every other American policy initiative in the region.
When considering this option, it is critical to keep
in mind that the policy’s ultimate objective is to
obliterate the Iranian nuclear program in the expectation that doing so would greatly limit Iran’s
ability to hamper other American policy initiatives in the region, such as a new Israeli-Palestinian peace process, a drawdown from Iraq that
does not jeopardize its political progress, improving the situation in Afghanistan, and so on.
A critical challenge for this policy option is that,
absent a clear Iranian act of aggression, American
airstrikes against Iran would be unpopular in the
region and throughout the world. This negative
reaction could undermine any or all of America’s policy initiatives in the region regardless of
how the Iranians respond. The vast majority of
countries whose partnership is necessary to advance these other policies, including those that
dislike or even fear Iran, do not want to see American military operations against Iran out of dislike

84

for unilateral American military operations and/
or fear of the repercussions in the region. Thus
Washington cannot allow airstrikes against Iran
to become a self-defeating course of action that
undermines the other U.S. policies that this option is ultimately meant to enable.
Especially in the absence of a clear Iranian provocation, averting this paradoxical danger would be
a major task for U.S. diplomats in the run-up to
such an air campaign. They would have to make
the case that Iran’s continued refusal to accede to
the will of the international community to halt
its nuclear enrichment activities (as stipulated
in multiple Security Council resolutions enacted
under Chapter VII of the UN Charter) threatened the security of the Middle East and jeopardized the global non-proliferation regime. They
would have to persuade these governments that
the United States had reasonably tried all of the
alternative approaches and none had succeeded.
They would have to argue that the American actions were ultimately designed to enhance the stability of the region and that it would be a mistake
for everyone if countries allowed their pique at
Washington to impede other initiatives that are
ultimately in the best interests of the entire region
and the entire world.
The truth is that these all would be challenging cases to make. For that reason, it would be far more
preferable if the United States could cite an Iranian
provocation as justification for the airstrikes before
launching them. Clearly, the more outrageous, the
more deadly, and the more unprovoked the Iranian
action, the better off the United States would be.
Of course, it would be very difficult for the United
States to goad Iran into such a provocation without the rest of the world recognizing this game,
which would then undermine it. (One method that
would have some possibility of success would be
to ratchet up covert regime change efforts in the
hope that Tehran would retaliate overtly, or even
semi-overtly, which could then be portrayed as an

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

unprovoked act of Iranian aggression.) This suggests that this option might benefit from being
held in abeyance until such time as the Iranians
made an appropriately provocative move, as they
do from time to time. In that case, it would be
less a determined policy to employ airstrikes and
instead more of an opportunistic hope that Iran
would provide the United States with the kind of
provocation that would justify airstrikes. However,
that would mean that the use of airstrikes could not
be the primary U.S. policy toward Iran (even if it
were Washington’s fervent preference), but merely
an ancillary contingency to another option that
would be the primary policy unless and until Iran
provided the necessary pretext.
A final complication for the diplomatic requirements of the Airstrikes option lies in the tension
between mounting an effective diplomatic campaign that secured permission for the U.S. military
to use local bases, and the desire to achieve surprise. Any effort to garner international support
for an air attack would eliminate the possibility
of gaining strategic surprise for the operation because the Iranians would inevitably get wind of the
American diplomatic exertions. In these circumstances, the best that the United States might hope
for would be tactical surprise in that the Iranians
might still be kept from knowing the timing and
specific conduct of the operation. This too would
be another trade-off that the president would have
to decide in moving forward this option, hopefully
gauging the likelihood of getting access to regional bases (and their importance to the operation)
against the utility of achieving surprise.

Legal
It is worth repeating that this policy does not
yet have any meaningful legal justification. In
particular, UN Security Council resolutions specify that they do not authorize member states to
use force to bring Iran into compliance with the
resolutions’ demands. This absence is important

because, by law, American military actions must
have such a legal basis. While it is certainly the
case that various presidents have provided only
the flimsiest legal justifications for military action,
other administrations have taken this requirement
very seriously. Since most Americans undoubtedly
hope that their leaders will take this requirement
seriously, and since the new Obama Administration has suggested that it will treat such requirements as obligations, not formalities, the absence
of such a legal basis could prove to be an impediment to adoption of this option. Moreover, having
a strong legal justification would help greatly with
the diplomatic task of securing support for an air
campaign while not letting it derail every other
American policy initiative in the Middle East.

Pros and Cons
The following are the advantages and disadvantages of the Airstrikes approach.

Advantages:
 F
 rom a military perspective, the option is well within American capabilities.
Airstrikes would likely do considerable
damage to important parts of the Iranian
nuclear program. In particular, the Bushehr (and Arak) plutonium complexes, the
Esfahan uranium production facility, and
many of the research centers could be totally annihilated because they are “soft” targets without reinforcement, camouflage, or
other protection. In the case of Arak and
Bushehr, there would be scant prospect of
Iran being able to rebuild such facilities
at the same sites or elsewhere to replace
them. Given the huge size and enormous
cooling requirements of modern nuclear
power plants, it is virtually impossible to
build them underground or otherwise hide
them from modern reconnaissance methods. Even the hardened targets, like those at

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

85

Natanz and Parchin, would likely be destroyed if the United States made enough
of an effort. At a minimum, they would be
severely compromised, with operations set
back several years. Moreover, during the
course of the operation, Iranian actions
might tip off U.S. intelligence to the existence of other, hitherto unknown facilities
that could also be found, struck, and destroyed as well.

nuclear program by as much as five to seven years, which might be long enough that
Tehran’s most virulent hard-liners would
never come into possession of a nuclear
weapon. There is even the possibility that
several Iranian political cycles might pass
before even a determined leadership could
create a more dispersed, hidden, durable
nuclear capability and thereby finally attain
a nuclear weapon.

 American casualties during the operation
itself would probably be minimal. Iran’s
air defense network, while improved, is
no match for the U.S. military’s ability to
neutralize it. Some aircraft and pilot losses
would have to be expected, including dozens of fatalities, based on the experience of
casualties during Desert Storm and other
recent air campaigns. But the total toll from
even an extended operation would probably be less than the monthly toll of Americans dying from Iranian-made weaponry at
the peak of the Iraq War in 2005-2007.

 Even if Iranian politics did not moderate significantly during that same period
of time, the setback could buy the rest of
the region the time and opportunity to
make progress in other ways—such as further steps toward Arab-Israeli peace and a
strengthening of currently weak democratic governments in Lebanon, Afghanistan,
and Iraq. If Iran were to acquire nuclear
weapons only after such positive developments, it probably would have greater difficulty stoking trouble in the region.

 There would certainly be collateral damage
in the form of Iranian civilian deaths, but
it is unlikely that huge numbers would be
killed. In particular, strikes against Iran’s
facilities at this time would not produce
large amounts of radioactive fallout, and
many of the targets to be struck are located
outside heavily populated areas.
 The operation itself is not dependent on
external support. Even without the use of
regional allies’ airfields, one to three American aircraft carriers, bombers from Diego
Garcia, and cruise missiles from ships and
submarines in the region could be enough
to execute a successful attack.
 There is some chance (albeit not high) that
the Airstrikes option could delay Iran’s

86

 By attacking Iran’s nuclear facilities but
sparing its conventional military and its
economy, the United States would retain a
measure of “intrawar deterrence” to limit
Iranian retaliation. In other words, leaving
aside the Invasion option, it would have the
ability to attack additional Iranian targets
in retaliation to any excessive Iranian response in the region or the world at large,
or to blockade Iranian oil shipments.

Disadvantages:
 Iran’s determination to acquire a nuclear
weapons capability would probably not be
reduced by such an attack and, especially
in the short term, could well be increased.
 The hard-line Iranian leadership that presently struggles to maintain political support

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

at home might be strengthened by a nationalistic reaction among the Iranian people
against what they would doubtless perceive
as an unprovoked American attack.
 Even massive airstrikes might only set back
the Iranian nuclear program by as little as
a year or two, and this seems more likely
than the more optimistic possibility that
this policy option would delay Iran’s program by three years or more. Given the
track record of U.S. and international intelligence in accurately assessing the nuclear
programs of foreign states, any attack, even
a sustained American operation, might fail
to destroy a substantial fraction of Iran’s
nuclear program. The United States cannot strike what it does not know about, and
there is good reason to think that Iran has
or will soon have major nuclear facilities—
including alternative uranium hexafluoride
storage/production and uranium enrichment plants—that have not been identified.
 Hizballah, widely considered the most proficient international terrorist organization,
could take off the gloves in responding to
any such attack. Even the possibility of a
9/11-type response cannot be dismissed
given Iran’s demonstrated capabilities in
this arena.
 Any U.S. pilots shot down and captured
in the course of their bombing runs could
suffer a significantly worse fate than the
American hostages taken in Tehran at the
time of the revolution three decades ago.
 Tehran could resort to economic warfare.
An Iranian attempt to close the Strait of
Hormuz to oil traffic—or at least to complicate passage of oil tankers through it, driving up the global price of oil in the process—
would not be out of the question (even if it

probably would not last long and would
leave Iran worse off than before). For revolutionaries in its leadership who had just
suffered the indignity of seeing their nuclear complex destroyed, the corresponding
risk to their own country’s economy might
seem worth the benefits. In other words,
cutting off their collective noses to spite
their face is not out of the question.
 Tehran might escalate its involvement in
Iraq and Afghanistan, perhaps shipping
advanced surface-to-air missiles and advanced antiarmor weapons, such as those
it has provided Hizballah but has so far refrained from providing Iraqi and Afghan
insurgents.
 In response to the Airstrikes option, Iran’s
politics could become even more radical rather than less so. If such an extremist government were to come into possession of a nuclear weapon, it might be even
more inclined than the current regime to
prove its revolutionary mettle by attacking
its neighbors overtly or covertly, stepping
up involvement in Lebanon’s politics, escalating support for anti-Israeli terrorists, or
even trying to draw Israel into a shooting
war.
 Over the long term, it would be difficult
to sustain a strategy of repeated air campaigns to prevent Iran from reconstituting
its nuclear program. Doing so could dramatically undercut Washington’s ability to
pursue its other objectives in the Middle
East—which ultimately constitute one
of the rationales behind preventing Iran
from acquiring a nuclear weapons capability. Washington may be hard pressed in its
ability to push for the range of other foreign policy initiatives it hopes to pursue in
the Middle East (a new Arab-Israeli peace

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

87

process, and democratization of Lebanon,
the stabilization of Iraq and Afghanistan,
and even ending the genocide in Darfur)—which a new Iran policy was specifically meant to enable, not preclude. If this
is the case, then the policy option would
have proven self-defeating.
 An air campaign against Iran could badly undermine U.S. efforts to employ any
other strategy in dealing with Tehran.
Airstrikes against Iran could prove so

88

unpopular around the globe—especially
if the United States cannot point to some
egregious Iranian action as a provocation—that it may be far harder for the
United States to galvanize international
support for additional sanctions against
Iran, let alone a full-scale Containment
regime. And having launched what Iranians would inevitably consider an unprovoked act of aggression, the prospect of
engagement of any kind with Iran in the
aftermath would appear unlikely.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

Chapter 5

LEAVE IT TO BIBI
Allowing or Encouraging an Israeli Military
Strike

F

or the United States, the Islamic Republic of
Iran has been an enemy for 30 years, one that
has sought to thwart U.S. policies in the Middle
East, such as advancing the Arab-Israeli peace
process and creating stable regional security arrangements. Crisis after crisis has arisen between
Iran and the United States but Iran has never been
and almost certainly never will be an existential
threat to the United States. It harbors no territorial designs on the United States, has never conducted a terrorist operation aimed at the American homeland, and, even should it acquire nuclear
weapons, lacks the delivery systems to threaten
the United States directly. Further, its economy is
anemic, and even if substantially reformed, will
probably never provide the base for Iran to make
itself a challenger to the United States on par with
Nazi Germany, Imperial Japan, the Soviet Union,
or Communist China.
But for Israel, Iran is a much more dangerous
opponent—it is close and threatening. There is
a virtual consensus in Israel that Iran cannot be
allowed to acquire nuclear weapons. From left to
right across the political spectrum, a great many
Israelis see a threat to their very survival from a

nuclear Iran. Former Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said, “Israel will not tolerate a nuclear weapon in the hands of people who say openly, explicitly and publicly that they want to wipe Israel off
the map.”36 In his first speech to the Knesset after being sworn in as prime minister, Binyamin
(“Bibi”) Netanyahu said, “We cannot afford to
take lightly megalomaniac tyrants who threaten
to annihilate us.”37 Other Israeli leaders are more
reasoned but also are determined to prevent Iranian acquisition of a nuclear weapons capability.
Ephraim Sneh, former deputy defense minister
and a much-decorated retired general of the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), notes that “the most salient strategic threat to Israel’s existence is Iran.”38
These leaders fear that Israel’s strategic room for
maneuver in the region would be constrained by
an Iranian nuclear deterrent. The success of Iranian-backed terrorist groups, Hizballah in Lebanon
and Hamas in Gaza and the West Bank, in the last
few years has only added to Israel’s concern.
Even relatively dovish analysts like the historian
Benny Morris write about an Iranian bomb in
apocalyptic terms: “The Iranians are driven by a
higher logic. And they will launch their rockets.

Lally Weymouth, “A Conversation with Ehud Olmert,” Washington Post, May 11, 2008, p. B3.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s Speech at the Knesset Swearing In Ceremony, March 31, 2009, available at <http://www.pmo.gov.il/
PMOEng/Communication/PMSpeaks/speechnetankness310309.htm>.
38
Ephraim Sneh, Navigating Perilous Waters: An Israeli Strategy for Peace and Security (London: Curzon, 2005), p. 55.
36
37

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

89

And, as with the first Holocaust, the international
community will do nothing. It will all be over, for
Israel, in a few minutes—not like in the 1940s,
when the world had five long years in which to
wring its hands and do nothing.”39
Only a few Israeli commentators have suggested
the threat may be exaggerated or that it actually
serves Israeli interests to have a threat from Iran.
Former Mossad chief Ephraim Halevy argues that
“Ahmadinejad is our greatest gift. We couldn’t
carry out a better operation in the Mossad than
to put a guy like Ahmadinejad in power in Iran.”40
But even Halevy believes Iran is a serious threat to
Israel’s interests.
It is clear from discussions with Israeli military
and intelligence officials, and from numerous
press leaks and reports that Israel is well under
way in planning for a military operation to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. Israel’s defense minister, Ehud Barak, said in 2007
that “the things that we do behind the scenes, far
from the public eye, are far more important than
the slogan charade,” implying that Israeli covert
capabilities are already hard at work trying to
cope with the Iranian threat and preparing to
attack it if they must.41 It is impossible to know
what those plans entail in detail without access
to the IDF’s secret planning, but Israelis say the
mission is “not impossible.” The IDF’s September
6, 2007 attack on the Syrian nuclear facility at
Dayr az-Zawr is widely believed in Israel to have
been in part a message to Tehran that Iran may
be next.
Israeli leaders have been warning about the Iranian threat since the early 1990s. Prime Minister

Yitzhak Rabin highlighted the danger Iran posed
to Israel in his first visit to the United States in
1992 after his election. Israeli intelligence operations against Iran were stepped up even earlier and
have included use of third parties to publicize the
Iranian threat without revealing the Israeli hand.
Iran’s secret enrichment and heavy-water reactor
programs were publicly exposed in August 2002
by an Iranian dissident group (the Mujahedin-e
Khalq), which reportedly was unwittingly fed the
information by Israeli intelligence.42
In short, there is considerable reason to believe
that under the right (or wrong) set of circumstances, Israel would launch an attack—principally airstrikes, but possibly backed by special forces
operations—to destroy Iran’s nuclear program.
This could create either an opportunity for or a
threat to American interests with regard to Iran
and the broader Middle East. It could constitute
an opportunity, and thus a possible policy option,
if the United States would like to see Iran’s nuclear
program destroyed but prefers not to do it itself.
It could be a threat if the United States believes
that an Israeli attack would destabilize the region
and would not advance (or would harm) American interests in relation to Iran.
Not surprisingly, some Americans have expressed the hope that Israel would strike Iran—
that Jerusalem would have the “guts” to do what
Washington does not. Other Americans regard
the prospect with horror, believing that an Israeli attack would have all the disadvantages
of American airstrikes (as well as some unique
ones) and none of their advantages. American decisionmakers need to have a clear sense
of what such an Israeli operation would look

Quoted in David Remnick, “Blood and Sand,” New Yorker, May 5, 2008, p. 76.
Quoted in “Ex-Mossad Chief: Ahmadinejad Is Israel’s Greatest Gift,” Haaretz, August 20, 2008.
41
Shahar Ilan, “Defense Min. to Knesset Panel: Talks Won’t Make Iran Nukes Go Away,” Haaretz, November 6, 2007.
42
That the Iranian dissidents got the information from Israeli intelligence, who fed it to them via a cutout, is according to former IDF chief of
staff Moshe Ya’alon. See Adrian Levy and Catherine Scott-Clark, Deception (New York: Atlantic, 2007), p. 525.
39
40

90

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

like, as well as the pros and cons for the United
States, to decide whether to try to encourage or
discourage it.43

Goal
As in the case of American airstrikes against Iran,
the goal of this policy option would be to destroy
key Iranian nuclear facilities in the hope that doing so would significantly delay Iran’s acquisition
of an indigenous nuclear weapons capability.
However, in this case, an added element could
be that the United States would encourage—and
perhaps even assist—the Israelis in conducting
the strikes themselves, in the expectation that
both international criticism and Iranian retaliation would be deflected away from the United
States and onto Israel. The logic behind this approach is that allowing Israel to mount the airstrikes, rather than the United States, provides a
way out of the dilemma described in the previous chapter, whereby American airstrikes against
Iran could become self-defeating because they
would undermine every other American initiative in the Middle East, an outcome exactly the
opposite of what a new Iran policy is meant to
accomplish.
As with American airstrikes against the Iranian
nuclear program, this option would not entail any
direct effort to deal with Iran’s support for terrorists and radical groups, nor would it directly seek
to mitigate other Iranian efforts to subvert the status quo in the Middle East. At most, this policy
assumes that Iran’s ability to pursue such activities would be greatly enhanced by possession of
a (presumed) nuclear weapons capability, and
therefore that removing this threat would help
limit Iran’s ability to cause problems for the United States in the region. Likewise, this approach

43

makes no effort to change the Iranian regime or
otherwise reshape its character.

Time Frame
If the United States decided to encourage Israel to
mount airstrikes against Iran, the entire operation
could happen very quickly, probably much faster
than a similar American campaign. Israel appears
to have done extensive planning and practice for
such a strike already, and its aircraft are probably
already based as close to Iran as possible. As such,
Israel might be able to launch the strike in a matter
of weeks or even days, depending on what weather
and intelligence conditions it felt it needed. Moreover, since Israel would have much less of a need
(or even interest) in securing regional support
for the operation, Jerusalem probably would feel
less motivated to wait for an Iranian provocation
before attacking. In short, Israel could move very
fast to implement this option if both Israeli and
American leaders wanted it to happen.
However, as noted in the previous chapter, the
airstrikes themselves are really just the start of
this policy. Again, the Iranians would doubtless
rebuild their nuclear sites. They would probably
retaliate against Israel, and they might retaliate
against the United States, too (which might create a pretext for American airstrikes or even an
invasion). And it seems unlikely that they would
cease their support for violent extremist groups
or efforts to overturn the regional status quo in
the aftermath of Israeli airstrikes. Their opposition to an Arab-Israeli peace treaty would likely
be redoubled. Hence the United States would
still need a strategy to handle Iran after completion of the Israeli airstrikes, and this could mean
a much longer time frame to achieve all of America’s goals.

 e note that the George W. Bush Administration reportedly dissuaded Israel from mounting such a strike in 2008, suggesting that it had
W
concluded that such an operation would be unhelpful to American interests and policies in the region.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

91

Overview of the Policy
An Israeli air campaign against Iran would have
a number of very important differences from an
American campaign. First, the Israeli Air Force
(IAF) has the problem of overflight transit from
Israel to Iran. Israel has no aircraft carriers, so its
planes must take off from Israeli air bases. It also
does not possess long-range bombers like the B-1
or B-2, or huge fleets of refueling tankers, all of
which means that unlike the United States, Israel
cannot avoid flying through someone’s air space.
The most direct route from Israel to Iran’s Natanz
facility is roughly 1,750 kilometers across Jordan
and Iraq. As the occupying power in Iraq, the
United States is responsible for defending Iraqi
airspace. The alternatives via Turkish airspace
(over 2,200 kilometers) or Saudi airspace (over
2,400 kilometers) would also put the attack force
into the skies of U.S. allies equipped with American-supplied air defenses and fighter aircraft. In
the case of Turkey, an Israeli overflight would be
further complicated by the fact that Turkey is a
NATO ally that the United States has a commitment to defend, and it hosts a large, joint TurkishAmerican airbase along the most likely route of
attack.
For political and military reasons, Israel’s need
to overfly Turkish, Iraqi-Jordanian, or Saudi airspace creates two problems. First, an Israeli strike
must achieve surprise so that Israeli planes are
not intercepted by the air defenses and fighters of
those countries. Second, in part based on reason
number one, the Israelis would get basically one
shot at Iran. On the first pass, they likely would
surprise any of those countries and be able to
reach Iran and return before the Turks, Saudis, or
Jordanians could activate their air defenses; but

44

92

a second wave would meet alerted air defenses,
creating military and political problems that Israel would likely find insurmountable. An initial
Israeli attack across Iraqi territory would severely
complicate the U.S. military presence there; a repeat performance would likely compromise it
altogether. Thus, after the first round of strikes,
Israel would have nothing but its small fleet of
ballistic missiles and submarine-launched cruise
missiles for follow-on attacks, and because the
ballistic missiles are such valuable assets, Jerusalem would not likely squander them on anything
but the highest value Iranian targets.
Another problem Israel faces is distance. The
IAF possesses 25 F-15I long-range strike aircraft, which have a combat radius of over 2,500
kilometers, giving them the range to hit Iranian targets even if they have to fly via Turkey
or Saudi Arabia. However, 25 aircraft is a tiny
number given the size, dispersal, and hardening
of the Iranian nuclear program, especially since
the planes could not carry much ordnance, nor
would they have the ability to hit multiple facilities on a single sortie at that distance. So Israel’s
F-15I fleet alone could not hope to do as much
damage to the Iranian nuclear program as even
the small-scale American airstrike discussed in
the previous chapter.44 Thus just employing the
25 F-15Is probably would not make the operation worthwhile from Jerusalem’s or Washington’s perspective.
In addition to the F-15Is, Israel has acquired 100 F16I fighter bombers. There is a great deal of speculation regarding the combat range of the F-16I,
which most sources suggest is roughly 1,600-1,800
kilometers. However, at least one well-regarded Israeli source has stated that it has a range of 2,100

Israel has three submarines (and is acquiring two more) that could also launch a small number of cruise missiles (American Harpoon
anti-ship cruise missiles) against Iranian targets. Once again, the numbers that Israel could launch would be dwarfed by the numbers of
(larger and longer range) cruise missiles that the United States could be expected to employ in even a limited air campaign against the
Iranian nuclear program.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

kilometers.45 Even if the longer distance is possible,
this means that the F-16Is only have the range to
strike Iran unrefueled if they fly the shortest route
across Jordan and Iraq—which is also the most politically problematic because it clearly incriminates
the United States as Israel’s witting accomplice in
the strike. From the American perspective, this
negates the whole point of the option—distancing
the United States from culpability—and it could
jeopardize American efforts in Iraq, thus making
it a possible nonstarter for Washington. Finally,
Israeli violation of Jordanian airspace would likely
create political problems for King Abdullah of Jordan, one of America’s (and Israel’s) closest Arab
friends in the region. Thus it is exceedingly unlikely that the United States would allow Israel to
overfly Iraq, and because of the problems it would
create for Washington and Amman, it is unlikely
that Israel would try to fly over Jordan.
Consequently, in most scenarios, for Israel to
mount an airstrike of any size against Iran—assuming that Israel cannot secretly refuel its aircraft
at an air base near Iran—it would have to provide
in-flight refueling to enable the F-16Is to participate. This is a further complication because while
it is possible for fighter aircraft to refuel one another, doing so immediately halves the number of
planes actually dropping bombs (the other half are
doing the refueling and so carry fuel, not weapons). In addition, since “buddy refueling” by other
fighter bombers is inefficient, it may take multiple
refuelings—meaning that out of 100 F-16Is committed, perhaps only 25 might be able to make it
to the targets in Iran. The alternative is the more
traditional method of using large tanker aircraft to
provide the fuel, but these are extremely vulnerable. Because of this and given the remarkable
capabilities demonstrated by the IAF over the

years, the possibility that Israel would find ways
to “hide” tankers in international air space or fly
them with the strike packages for much of the way
until their services are no longer needed should
not be ruled out. However, such risky operations
would only be feasible for the first round of strikes.
Once the surprise is over and the Iranians, Turks,
Jordanians, and/or Saudis have their air defenses
on alert, the tankers would be highly vulnerable.
What all of this means is that, realistically, an Israeli strike against Iran could consist of no more
than 125 Israeli F-15I and F-16I sorties (with
limited weapons loads because of the distance),
backed by a small number of cruise missile shots.
This is not a meaningless force, and it likely could
do a considerable amount of damage to the best
known of Iran’s facilities. But again, it probably
could not do as much damage as even the limited American Airstrikes option discussed in the
previous chapter—it probably would not even be
able to cover all the targets listed. Moreover, the
IAF would have virtually no capability to conduct
opportunity strikes on targets revealed by Iranian
actions during the attacks themselves. Nor would
it have much, if any, ability to follow up with repeat strikes to hit facilities where the initial attack failed to destroy the target. Overall, an Israeli
strike would be even less likely to meaningfully
set back the Iranian nuclear program than would
an American air campaign.46

An Israeli Attack on Iran versus U.S.
Interests
An Israeli attack on Iran would directly affect
key American strategic interests. If Israel were to
overfly Iraq, both the Iranians and the vast majority of people around the world would see the strike

 e Jaffee Center for Strategic Studies of Tel Aviv University has claimed this range in its annual volume, The Middle East Military Balance,
Th
2003-2004.
46
Some Israeli intelligence officials suspect it would only delay Iran’s nuclear program by a year. See ““Ahmadinejad Is Israel’s Greatest Gift.”
45

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

93

as abetted, if not authorized, by the United States.
Even if Israel were to use another route, many Iranians would still see the attack as American supported or even American orchestrated. After all,
the aircraft in any strike would be American produced, supplied, and funded F-15s and F-16s, and
much of the ordnance would be American made.
In fact, $3 billion dollars in U.S. assistance annually sustains the IDF’s conventional superiority in
the region.
Iran would almost certainly retaliate against
Israel and may choose to retaliate against the
United States as well. To demonstrate its retaliatory prowess, Iran has already fired salvos of test
missiles (some of which are capable of striking Israel), and Iranian leaders have warned that they
would respond to an attack by either Israel or the
United States with attacks against Tel Aviv, U.S.
ships and facilities in the Persian Gulf, and other
targets. If Iran wanted to retaliate in less risky
ways, it could respond indirectly by encouraging
Hizballah attacks against Israel and Shi’i militia
attacks against U.S. forces in Iraq. Fears of a wider
Middle Eastern war could play havoc with the oil
market, at least in the short term, and probably
would not help American initiatives to stabilize
Iraq, resolve the Arab-Israeli conflict, or foster
an independent democracy in Lebanon. Further,
Iran would be able to argue that it was the victim
of aggression and might renounce its Non-Proliferation Treaty commitments. And since even
a successful Israeli raid would only delay Iran’s
nuclear program—and probably by even less than
a small-scale American strike—the United States
would still have to have a strategy to deal with
the basic problem after an Israeli attack, but in an
even more complicated diplomatic context.
The Israelis are well aware of the risks and downsides of an attack on Iran’s nuclear facilities, especially the possible cost in American lives if
Tehran retaliates against the United States. Given
these risks, Jerusalem may focus on strengthening

94

sanctions in the near term, but the Israelis may feel
compelled to act if they judge that the current administration’s diplomatic push has failed. Israeli
commentators note that the chances of securing
Russian support for tough sanctions have diminished considerably since the 2008 war in Georgia.
Russia has a stronger interest in keeping good ties
with Iran, another power in the Caucasus, and
less interest in appeasing American and European
concerns about Iran. Since Israel is a strong supporter of Georgia, Russia may also feel it should
pay Israel back by moving closer to Tehran.

U.S. Options and Decision Points
Given the stakes for the United States, the president should make a decision about a potential
Israeli military attack against Iranian nuclear facilities. There are four options. The first option is
for the United States to give Israel a “green light,”
permitting Israel to transit American-controlled
airspace over Iraq. In this case, the United States
would coordinate with Israel beforehand on how
to manage the consequences of an attack, including Iranian retaliation and the regional and international political fallout. The option’s principal
virtue is that if Israel effects a military solution
to the Iranian nuclear threat, the United States
would benefit from the attack without taking the
risks of using its own forces.
The downsides are more numerous simply because
no one, least of all Iran, would believe the United
States had nothing to do with an Israeli attack, especially if the United States allowed Israel to fly
over Iraq. As discussed above, one of the most
significant consequences of the “green light” scenario could be Iranian retaliation against American targets, which could then lead to a broader
conflict between the United States and Iran. Unless the United States is prepared to take draconian measures immediately afterward to distance
itself from Israel, such as a complete cutoff of all
military assistance and economic aid, Tehran

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

may well blame Washington as much as Jerusalem for the air attack on its territory. However,
for the United States to attempt to distance itself
from Israel under these circumstances would, of
course, amount to a betrayal of the Israelis, since
Washington’s “green light” would have encouraged them to undertake the attack. In addition,
in the aftermath of the approach that allows Israel
use of Iraqi airspace, it would be more difficult for
the United States to argue that Iran should still
abide by its Non-Proliferation Treaty obligations.
The United States would have been party to the
operation in spirit, if not in fact, and thus have
little credibility in trying to persuade Iran that it
should not embark on a crash attempt to build a
nuclear weapon.
The second option is for the United States to
give Israel a “yellow light,” encouraging Israel to
mount the attack, but not permit it to use Iraqi
airspace. The virtues of this scenario would be
the same as with the “green light,” with the added
benefit that the diplomatic fallout for the United
States might be mitigated since it could claim it
had no advance warning, or that it did and even
tried to prevent the attack by closing off Iraq’s airspace. The drawback to this option is that many,
especially Iran, might still believe that the United
States was complicit in the operation, thus making U.S. troops in the region vulnerable to retaliatory strikes by Iran.
A third option would be for the United States to
give Israel a “red light,” actively discouraging an
Israeli attack, either because Washington had decided that it could carry out the attack more effectively and with fewer political complications on its
own, or because it determines that the likely costs
of a military attack by either the United States or
Israel outweigh the potential benefits. The rationale for saying no will determine the pluses and
minuses of the red light option. If Washington
discourages an Israeli attack because it plans to
execute its own invasion or airstrikes, then this

approach would accrue all of the benefits and liabilities associated with those options (as discussed
in the previous two chapters). If Washington decides not to launch a military operation and, for
the same reasons, decides that it would be as bad
or worse for Israel to do so, then the United States
avoids the risk of Iranian retaliation and the diplomatic liabilities of an attack. The downsides of
this rationale for saying no include a difficult argument with Israel over the issue, perhaps played
out in the public domain, which could benefit Iran
by giving it a propaganda coup against Israel. In
addition, Israel could very well carry out the operation even if Washington signaled a “red light,”
in which case U.S. forces in the region could be
in harm’s way from Iranian retaliation without
Washington having had the benefit of knowing the
time and scope of the Israeli attack.
A fourth option is for the president to avoid making a clear decision—giving no light—which
could lead to an Israeli attack without any American input. In other words, doing nothing could
amount to a decision to let Israel go forward on its
own. The outcome of this would be essentially the
same as any of the previous options but with additional downsides. The reason for this is that if Israel chose to fly over Iraqi airspace, the president
would have to decide whether to order the planes
intercepted and turned back or look the other way
and allow the planes to proceed. Intercepting the
Israeli planes would be akin to a “red light” decision, but worse. Israel, and many of its supporters in the United States, would react bitterly, and
there is the possibility of Israeli and American
planes even shooting at each other. The alternative decision, allowing the planes to proceed over
Iraq’s airspace, would be akin to the “green light”
option, but worse in that the United States would
have had no advanced warning of the strike. As
such, American forces in the region would have
little time to prepare for a possible Iranian counterstrike. Finally, should Israel decide to proceed
with the attack on its own without overflying Iraqi

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

95

airspace, the consequences would be the same as
the “yellow light” scenario, but worse in that the
United States would have had no warning of the
timing and scope of the attack.

Requirements
In one sense, the requirements of the Israeli airstrike option are minimal. If the United States
concludes that this option is worth pursuing, it
merely requires a high-level conversation between
Washington and Jerusalem. Again, the principal
virtue of this option is that it would result in airstrikes against the Iranian nuclear program and
could mitigate the political, diplomatic, and even
military burdens on the United States. It may also
result in a strike against the Iranian nuclear program much sooner than the United States could
be able to do, although the punch might be much
weaker than what the United States could deliver.
Even in this case, however, the United States is unlikely to get off easily. First, the Israelis may want
U.S. help with a variety of things. Israel may be
more willing to bear the risks of Iranian retaliation
and international opprobrium than the United
States is, but it is not invulnerable and may request
certain commitments from the United States before it is ready to strike. For instance, the Israelis
may want to hold off until they have a peace deal
with Syria in hand (assuming that Jerusalem believes that one is within reach), which would help
them mitigate blowback from Hizballah and potentially Hamas. Consequently, they might want
Washington to push hard in mediating between
Jerusalem and Damascus. In addition, the Israelis
might request additional military equipment—
deep-penetrating munitions to make the attack
more effective, more F-15s or F-16s (or F-22s), or
the latest defensive systems to help them defend

47

96

themselves against Iranian retaliation. (And, of
course, all of these requests would also greatly extend the time frame for an Israeli strike.)
Second, as noted earlier, the United States would
need to prepare for the possibility of Iranian retaliation as well, especially if the Israeli warplanes
overflew Jordan and Iraq. Washington would have
to be ready to make a major counterterrorism effort to protect the U.S. homeland as well as American diplomatic and military personnel overseas.
In both Iraq and Afghanistan, the United States
would need to prepare to withstand a wave of
Iranian inspired (and armed) attacks against U.S.
forces there.

Requirements of the Red Light Option:
Enhancing Jerusalem’s Security
If the current administration concludes that an Israeli strike against Iran would harm U.S. interests
and therefore that Jerusalem must be persuaded
not to attack—not just in the immediate future
but over the long term as well—then the requirements for Washington change considerably and,
in some ways, become far more involved. There
is precedent for the United States persuading Israel not to use force against a military threat. In
the 1991 Gulf War, President George H.W. Bush
pressed Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir not to attack Iraqi Scud missile launchers that were targeting Israel. Most important, Bush refused to give
the Israelis the IFF (identification friend or foe)
codes and approval to enter Iraqi airspace, thus
indicating that Israeli aircraft would be flying in
harm’s way. Israel’s preferred option of a limited
ground force incursion into western Iraq was also
rejected. In turn, the United States committed to
stepping up its own attacks on Iraqi Scuds, although with little or no effect.47

Scott B. Lasensky, “Friendly Restraint: U.S.-Israel Relations during the Gulf War Crisis of 1990-1991,” Middle East Review of International
Affairs, June 1, 1999, available at <www.cfr.org/publication/4870/friendly_restraint.html>.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

With regard to Iran, the most important element
of an American effort to dissuade Israel from
launching an attack of its own would be a discussion between Washington and Jerusalem on how
to ensure that Tehran does not threaten Israel
with nuclear weapons if U.S. diplomatic and military efforts eventually fail to prevent Iran from
acquiring them. Ultimately, the United States
probably would not be willing or able to prevent
an Israeli attack against Iranian nuclear facilities if Jerusalem decides that it could do so successfully and believes that it has no other choice.
However, if Israeli leaders are uncertain about the
effectiveness and consequences of a military raid,
joint planning with the United States on how to
contain and deter a nuclear-armed Iran could influence their decision. For example, if Jerusalem
were confident that formal U.S. nuclear assurances could be extended to Israel, it might be more
inclined to calculate that the risks of living with
a nuclear-armed Iran were more manageable.
Therefore, in addition to coordinating on dayto-day diplomatic efforts, the U.S. administration
should offer to begin a very quiet policy planning
exercise with Israel to consider options if diplomacy with Iran fails.
Specifically, Washington should take another look
at the pluses and minuses of extending an explicit American nuclear guarantee to Israel. At the
Camp David summit in 2000, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak suggested a U.S.-Israeli mutual
defense treaty be signed to provide Israel with
a nuclear guarantee against Iran. The idea died
when the Israeli-Palestinian peace process collapsed, but it is worth reconsidering.
Of course, Israeli capabilities ought to be enough
on their own. Estimates of the size of Israel’s

arsenal by outsiders (Israelis are prohibited by law
from doing so) suggest it is formidable. The International Institute for Strategic Studies estimated
in 2008 that Israel has the sixth-largest nuclear
arsenal in the world, just behind the five original
nuclear powers but ahead of India and Pakistan.
The Israelis probably have around 100 nuclear
devices and can deliver them by aircraft (F-15Is),
surface-to-surface missiles (Jericho), and submarine-launched cruise missiles.48
Such an arsenal should suffice to deter Iran, but
an American nuclear guarantee would provide
the Israelis an extra measure of reassurance. If
the United States guarantees Israel a nuclear umbrella, then Iran would know that no matter what
damage it may inflict on Israel, the United States
would be able to retaliate with overwhelming
force. This deterrent is strengthened by the fact
that Iran would have no delivery system capable
of quickly striking back at the U.S. homeland.49
It would be the target of both whatever residual
capability Israel retained and the vast American
nuclear arsenal.
The United States could provide Jerusalem with
further reassurance. Already the United States
has been deeply involved in building Israel’s defense against an Iranian missile strike. For almost
two decades, the Pentagon has been working
closely with Israel to perfect the Arrow anti-tactical ballistic missile system. The two countries
have shared extensive technology for anti-tactical ballistic missile systems, including the integration of Israel into the most advanced American early warning radar systems to provide the
earliest possible alert of an incoming attack. This
defensive cooperation should be continued and
enhanced.

See “Israel: Nuclear Monopoly in Danger,” in Nuclear Programmes in the Middle East: In the Shadow of Iran (London: International Institute
for Strategic Studies, 2008).
49
Iran could always retaliate with a terrorist attack, but this would likely take weeks or months to implement.
48

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

97

The United States could also look at other ways
of bolstering the Israel Defense Forces. The F-15I
will remain an adequate long-range strike platform for the immediate future, but it is worth
examining whether to provide the F-22 Raptor
aircraft to the IDF as an even more sophisticated
attack system that would be able to ensure Israel’s
deterrence capability far into the future. Prime
Minister Barak raised this issue with President
Clinton at the Camp David summit in 2000, and
it should be reconsidered.
Finally, the current administration could try to
go one step further and develop a multinational
nuclear deterrent for Israel by proposing Israeli
membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Under Article 5 of the NATO treaty, an
attack on any member is an attack on the whole.
As a NATO member, Israel would automatically
enjoy the same nuclear umbrella as the existing 26
members. Israel is already a member of NATO’s
Mediterranean dialogue and participates in limited military exercises with several NATO partners
aside from the United States, including notably
both Greece and Turkey.
Getting Israel into NATO would be a very hard
sell, however, as many of the European allies believe Israel has done too little to bring about peace
with its Arab neighbors, and they would probably condition support for Israeli membership on
concrete and public moves toward a final peace
agreement. European public opinion is increasingly wary of increasing NATO’s membership,
and many would find Israel an unattractive ally
that could commit Europeans to fighting Arabs.
Finally, all the options for expanding Israel’s deterrent through new treaty obligations, either
bilateral or via NATO, would face substantial
opposition from those in Israel who argue such
commitments weaken Israel’s ability to act unilaterally. A mutual defense alliance does not require
advance agreement before one party uses force,

98

but it certainly increases the political imperative
not to surprise your treaty partner with independent action.

Pros and Cons
The following are the advantages and disadvantages of the Israel approach.

Advantages:
 As noted, the most salient advantage this
option has over that of an American air
campaign is the possibility that Israel alone
would be blamed for the attack. If this
proves true, then the United States might
not have to deal with Iranian retaliation
or the diplomatic backlash that would accompany an American military operation
against Iran. It could allow Washington to
have its cake (delay Iran’s acquisition of a
nuclear weapon) and eat it, too (avoid undermining many other U.S. regional diplomatic initiatives).
 Israeli forces might be able to execute the
attack much sooner and with much less
prior notice and preparation than American military forces could.
 It would presumably be easier to convince
Israel to mount the attack than it would be
to generate domestic political support for
another war in the Middle East (let alone
the diplomatic support from a region that
is extremely wary of new American military adventures). At least some important
Israelis want to conduct such an attack and
would welcome Washington’s encouragement. Other Israelis are less enthusiastic but
feel it may be necessary if they believe they
have no choice, and they, too, would be far
more willing to attack if they believed that
the United States was firmly behind it.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

Disadvantages:
 An Israeli airstrike against Iran entails many—
potentially all—of the same disadvantages as
an American air campaign against Iran but
has few of its advantages. Its one advantage,
the possibility that Israel would bear the entire
burden for the strike, in terms of international
opprobrium and Iranian retaliation, is highly
uncertain and would depend on the circumstances of the strike and a variety of unpredictable perceptions. If the United States is seen
as ultimately (or jointly) responsible for the

attack, there would be no advantage from the
American perspective.
 In particular, an Israeli military strike would be
weaker than even a limited American air campaign and so would have a lower likelihood of
seriously delaying Iran’s acquisition of a nuclear
weapons capability. Thus, when assessing the
American cost-benefit analysis of this option, the
benefit is unquestionably less than it would be if
the United States mounted the attack itself, while
any reduction in cost would be extremely difficult
to assess—and could be marginal or nonexistent.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

99

Part III

TOPPLING TEHRAN
Regime Change

F

or some Americans, neither the diplomatic
nor the airstrike options offer a persuasive
approach to Iran. They have little confidence that
the Iranians can be persuaded—either with big
incentives and disincentives, or with just the big
incentives—and fear that airstrikes would fail to
disarm Iran and instead would further entrench
the clerical regime. Instead, they believe that only
taking action to bring about the fall of the Islamic
Republic can protect America’s vital interests in
the Middle East. These Americans see the regime
itself, and not merely its behavior, as the real
threat to U.S. security. They believe that the regime simply will never live up to any agreements,
and even if somehow it did, it would find other
ways to undermine U.S. interests because the
regime and the United States are fundamentally
incompatible. Consequently, Americans who fall
into this camp tend to dislike both the diplomatic
and airstrike options because none of them offer
any reasonable prospect of ousting the regime.
They might favor an invasion, but after Iraq and
Afghanistan, they tend to believe either that the
costs are not worth it or that the American people
will not go for it. So for them, the only reasonable
way to handle Iran is to pursue some form of covert action intended to bring about the end of the
Islamic Republic.

the Middle East. Thus it is not surprising that
some Americans have examined the regime for
cracks that could be widened to bring about its
downfall. The surprising ascendance of a reform
movement with the 1997 election of Muhammad
Khatami made a change in regime seem possible,
even imminent: not only did Khatami’s widespread support suggest considerable disenchantment with the clerical regime, but his election
indicated that peaceful means might lead to its
replacement under the leadership of a man calling for a “dialogue of civilizations.” Over ten years
later, however, Khatami’s conservative opponents
have consolidated power. While many Iranians
are cynical toward or even hostile to the regime,
the reform movement is in disarray.

The clerical regime in Iran is brutal and corrupt,
and its leaders oppose U.S. interests throughout

There are several ways in which the United
States could change the regime or undermine it:

The reform movement, however, is not the only
means for changing the regime, and in theory
the United States has several options if it seeks a
new Iranian government. In the past, the United
States engineered a coup to restore a government
of its liking there and in recent years, Washington has supported programs designed to bolster a
democratic movement in Iran. Prominent voices
have also called for helping Iranian oppositionists
overthrow the regime and for using Iran’s minority groups to undermine the government.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

101

supporting a popular revolution, stirring up Iran’s
ethnic groups, or promoting a coup. In practice,
these options could be pursued simultaneously
and overlap in some of their elements, but it is
worth considering each separately to understand
their nature and requirements. That is the task of
the next three chapters.

102

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

Chapter 6

THE VELVET REVOLUTION
Supporting a Popular Uprising

B

ecause the Iranian regime is widely disliked
by many Iranians, the most obvious and palatable method of bringing about its demise would
be to help foster a popular revolution along the
lines of the “velvet revolutions” that toppled many
communist governments in Eastern Europe beginning in 1989. For many proponents of regime
change, it seems self-evident that the United States
should encourage the Iranian people to take power in their own name, and that this would be the
most legitimate method of regime change. After
all, what Iranian or foreigner could object to helping the Iranian people fulfill their own desires?
Moreover, Iran’s own history would seem to suggest that such an event is plausible. During the
1906 Constitutional Movement, during the late
1930s, arguably during the 1950s, and again during the 1978 Iranian Revolution, coalitions of
intellectuals, students, peasants, bazaari merchants, Marxists, constitutionalists, and clerics
mobilized against an unpopular regime. In both
1906 and 1978, the revolutionaries secured the
support of much of the populace and, in so doing, prevailed. There is evidence that the Islamic
regime has antagonized many (perhaps all) of
these same factions to the point where they again
might be willing to support a change if they feel
that it could succeed. This is the foundational
belief of those Americans who support regime
change, and their hope is that the United States

can provide whatever the Iranian people need to
believe that another revolution is feasible.
Of course, popular revolutions are incredibly
complex and rare events. There is little scholarly
consensus on what causes a popular revolution,
or even the conditions that facilitate them. Even
factors often associated with revolutions, such as
military defeat, neglect of the military, economic
crises, and splits within the elite have all been regular events across the world and throughout history, but only a very few have resulted in a popular revolution. Consequently, all of the literature
on how best to promote a popular revolution—
in Iran or anywhere else—is highly speculative.
Nevertheless, it is the one policy option that holds
out the prospect that the United States might
eliminate all of the problems it faces from Iran, do
so at a bearable cost, and do so in a manner that is
acceptable to the Iranian people and most of the
rest of the world.

Goal
The true objective of this policy option is to overthrow the clerical regime in Tehran and see it
replaced, hopefully, by one whose views would
be more compatible with U.S. interests in the
region. The policy does, in its own way, seek a
change in Iranian behavior, but by eliminating the
government that is responsible for that behavior

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

103

without the use of American military forces. Indeed, inherent in this option is the assumption
that the current Iranian regime is uniquely problematic for the United States—that a successor
would not attempt to acquire a nuclear weapons
capability, nor seek to overturn the regional status
quo by stoking instability. It is worth noting that if
a future democratic Iranian regime did continue
these policies, that might prove more of a problem for the United States than their pursuit by
what is clearly an autocratic regime.
While the ultimate goal is to remove the regime,
working with the internal opposition also could be
a form of coercive pressure on the Iranian regime,
giving the United States leverage on other issues.
Iran under the Shah, for example, backed a Kurdish insurgency in Iraq and helped make the rebels
quite potent. The Shah then abruptly sold out the
Kurds in exchange for Iraqi concessions on demarcating the Iran-Iraq border. In theory, the United
States could create coercive leverage by threatening the regime with instability or even overthrow
and, after having done so, use this leverage to force
concessions on other issues such as Iran’s nuclear
program or support for militants in Iraq.
This mix of goals can be seen as a spectrum: if the
policies achieve relatively limited gains, they can
be expanded to try to achieve ambitious results.
As Scott Carpenter, who served as a U.S. deputy
assistant secretary of state and focused on democracy promotion, contends, “If the U.S. plays
its hand effectively, we can weaken the tyrant of
Tehran substantially—and ideally empower his
own people to effect peaceful change.”50

Time Frame
Because popular revolutions are so rare and unpredictable, and because the Iranian regime vigilantly

50

104

guards against any popular revolt, it is impossible
to know how long it would take for the United
States to promote a revolution in Tehran. It may
be that, as many proponents contend, the Iranian
people are desperate to overthrow the regime and
the emphatic commitment of the United States to
the cause would be sufficient to trigger the Iranian people to move against their government. But
this claim has been made many times in the past,
both about Iran and other countries, and has only
occasionally proven true. Moreover, even if the
people were willing, they may not be able; they
may need help organizing and finding leaders,
or they may need to wait until the regime suffers
some major setback that provides an opportunity
to act. In short, it could take years to decades to
engineer a popular revolution in Iran, and any
American administration that adopts this option
should do so understanding that it could happen
very quickly (in a matter of months), very slowly
(in a matter of years or decades), or not at all.

Overview of the Policy
Popular revolutions, especially successful popular
revolutions, are so complex and uncommon that
it is difficult to outline a specific course of action
that would have a high likelihood of sparking one.
Many outside observers, however, are nonetheless optimistic that some form of “people power”
could topple the clerical regime. They point to the
following favorable factors:
 The regime is unpopular with many Iranians due to graft and economic mismanagement;
 Th
 e regime’s religious legitimacy has declined considerably, and many senior clerics now reject the velayat-e faqih system;
and

J. Scott Carpenter, “How We Can Bring Him Down,” New York Daily News, September 24, 2007.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

 Reformers have at times done well in elections, and while the current elected leadership is extremely conservative, it won power in part by excluding more liberal rivals
from the process and because turnout was
often low. 51
In addition, these observers note that some Iranians opposed to the clerical regime are pro-American, and even those who are more skeptical of
the United States are not as aggressively hostile
as the current clerical regime, which is one of the
most anti-American governments in the world.
Iran is one of the rare Muslim countries where
much of the population wants closer ties to the
United States, so promoting a democratic change
might make more sense there than it would in a
country like Saudi Arabia, where popular hostility to the United States is high. This suggests that
at least a few of those willing or desirous of moving against the current regime might look to the
United States for support in their effort.
Beyond this, however, it is often difficult to be
specific about how a popular revolution might
start, let alone be carried through to completion,
especially when considered in the context of a
fragmented and opaque Iranian political system.
It could begin with more pragmatic leaders recognizing the problems and illegitimacy of the current system and trying to reform it to the point
where the system itself breaks under the weight
of the contradictions and tensions that emerge
(for example, the process by which Gorbachev’s
perestroika and glasnost led to the collapse of the
Soviet Union). Alternatively, it could take the

form of widespread popular demonstrations and
unrest that eventually discredit the government
and lead it to exit the scene. Past examples range
from the bloody overthrow of the Ceausescu
government in Romania to the more peaceful removal of the Marcos regime from power in the
Philippines.
The United States could play multiple roles in facilitating a revolution. By funding and helping organize domestic rivals of the regime, the United States
could create an alternative leadership to seize power. As Raymond Tanter of the Iran Policy Committee argues, students and other groups “need covert
backing for their demonstrations. They need fax
machines. They need Internet access, funds to duplicate materials, and funds to keep vigilantes from
beating them up.”52 Beyond this, U.S.-backed media outlets could highlight regime shortcomings
and make otherwise obscure critics more prominent. The United States already supports Persianlanguage satellite television (Voice of America Persian) and radio (Radio Farda) that bring unfiltered
news to Iranians (in recent years, these have taken
the lion’s share of overt U.S. funding for promoting
democracy in Iran).53 U.S. economic pressure (and
perhaps military pressure as well) can discredit the
regime, making the population hungry for a rival
leadership.
To a limited extent, the Congress and the Bush Administration took steps to support regime change
by encouraging democracy in Iran. Under the Iran
Freedom Support Act of 2006 (and subsequent
renewals), the United States is authorized to provide financial and political aid to organizations

Velayat-e faqih means “rule of the jurisprudent” and is the shorthand term used to describe the philosophical underpinnings of the Iranian
regime. Briefly, according to Khomeini’s theories about politics, the government should be presided over by the person most learned in
Islam and Islamic legal theory, the supreme jurisprudent. This is how Khomeini justified the creation of a theocratic regime in Iran, and his
own predominance within it.
52
As quoted in Jeffrey Donovan, “Iran: Pressure Builds on Washington to Promote ‘Regime Change,’” Radio Free Europe, June 17, 2003.
53
Eli Lake, “This Pretty Much Kills the Iran Democracy Program,” New York Sun, November 8, 2007. Lake reports that $49 million of the $75
million authorized in 2006 went to Voice of America Persian and Radio Farda. Lake’s article also discusses the allegation that U.S. funding of
democracy programs is detrimental for reformers, addressed in more detail below.
51

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

105

promoting democracy in Iran, and has spent tens
of millions of dollars to this end.54 This legislation noted that promoting antiregime media and
backing civil society and human rights organizations were appropriate uses of the funding, but
it stipulated that the funds were not to be used
to support the use of force or for entities that are
designated as foreign terrorist organizations. The
press has also reported a host of covert programs
designed to promote regime change or bolster antiregime officials.

Requirements
In one sense, encouraging a popular revolution
in Iran might require very little—perhaps even
nothing at all—from the United States. Very few
true popular revolutions have been successfully
abetted, let alone caused, by an external power.
Rather, most are propelled by forces indigenous
to the country. Even in the case of the velvet
revolutions that followed the end of the Cold
War, it is hard to find one that the United States
directly caused. Certainly, there were some that
the United States probably helped by encouraging them and pledging assistance once they got
going, but it is impossible to know whether such
revolutions would have succeeded or failed without that support—and many others succeeded or
failed based on factors wholly unrelated to external assistance.
However, if the United States were determined
to try to cause a revolution, this could be a very
tall order because of the limited knowledge about
how these phenomena begin and succeed. At
the very least, it is clear that if the United States
were going to have any chance at instigating a
revolution, it would have to find effective and
popular Iranian oppositionists with whom to

54

106

work. A popular revolution certainly requires
homegrown leaders, even if they are brought in
by sealed train, as Lenin supposedly was by Wilhelmine Germany. In addition, the United States
would need to ensure that its support does more
good than harm. It is also necessary that Iran’s existing security services, which have proven themselves quite capable, either are unable to act or
choose not to. Finally, all of this, in turn, requires
excellent intelligence and, for some options, considerable funding.

Finding the Right Proxies
One of the hardest tasks in fomenting a revolution, or even just unrest, is finding the right local
partners. Resisting an authoritarian regime like
Tehran’s is a dangerous game: failure can mean
not only arrest or execution for the rebels, but
also severe punishment for their families. In addition, a regime has huge advantages in organization and unity in general: its forces work together
(for the most part), magnifying their strength.
The opposition, in contrast, often begins as disorganized idealists and has difficulty communicating effectively. A quick look at some of the more
plausible candidates for a revolution illustrates
the difficulty of finding the proper local channels
for effecting a revolution.
The Reformists
Iran’s reform movement would appear to be the
most obvious vehicle for popular revolution.
There is considerable evidence that many within
the reform movement during the 1990s explicitly sought to topple the Islamic regime and replace it with a secular democracy. Unfortunately,
the reformist movement rose and fell with the
fortunes of former president Muhammad Khatami,
who proved unwilling to lead the revolution that

The act itself authorizes the spending of $75 million, although only $66.1 million was ever appropriated. Some additional monies were
added in subsequent years. Only a portion has been spent, in part because the U.S. government did not find suitable recipients.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

so many of his followers seemed to want. The tremendous disappointment of his presidency caused
a fragmentation of the movement he led, and today
the reformist parties are divided and weak. Many
former reformists have abandoned the formal reformist parties for others that are considered more
effective. The reformists are suppressed, harassed,
and often barred from office by the regime. Although many Iranians still share the same ideals
(and probably goals) as the reformists, the parties
and their leaders no longer have the ability to mobilize the populace the way they once did.
Moreover, although some reformists clearly
sought a full-scale revolution, it is not clear that
all did. Many probably only sought specific changes—an end to corruption, greater transparency
and accountability, a weakening of the powerful
unelected government entities that ultimately
rule the Islamic Republic, more competent economic management, and an end to the stringent
social codes that still govern Iranian life. Certainly, these would represent dramatic changes in
the nature of Iranian governance, but they are not
necessarily incompatible with the continuation of
the Islamic Republic.
Intellectuals
The questioning of the underlying legitimacy of
a regime by intellectuals is often and correctly
seen as a serious threat: having the regime discredited among key “opinion shapers” is a critical
precondition for its collapse. Iran has a significant
intellectual class, consisting not only of academics and reformist journalists but also, and perhaps
more important, dissident clerics. Time and again
these voices have criticized the regime, with some
going so far as to question the legitimacy of the
velayat-e faqih system itself. These criticisms appeared to reach a high point under the presidency
of Khatami in the late 1990s.
Dissident clerics are a particularly important
part of the elite opposition. Their criticisms

speak directly to regime legitimacy, which rests
on religious credentials. Not surprisingly, the
regime has tried to use both formal and informal means to sideline these people. In addition,
these clerics are limited in part by their own
message: because they push for the clergy to be
more apolitical, their own political involvement
tends to be limited.
Since the peak of reform in the late 1990s, intellectuals in Iran, both clerical and lay, have suffered tremendous repression. Many have been
beaten or threatened with force. Others have
been imprisoned on trumped-up charges, lost
their jobs, or even killed or driven into exile.
Less directly, but probably more effectively, major media outlets have denied them airtime, and
the regime monitors them and prevents them
from speaking to large groups. Dissent does get
out, but because of this censorship and intimidation, it is less effective than it would otherwise
be. Even indirect contacts with foreign organizations, particularly ones linked to U.S. democracy promotion efforts such as the National Endowment for Democracy, are grounds for severe
punishment.
Student, Labor, and Civil Society
Organizations
Students and workers are often the shock troops
of revolutionary movements. Students typically
are willing to take considerable risks and, in so
doing, expose holes in the regime’s coercive apparatus or create divisions within the existing
elite. In the 1990s, students in particular were
enthusiastic about Khatami and the promise of
reform. Indeed, during the summers of 1999 and
2003, thousands of students at Tehran University
attempted to start just such a revolution, as their
forebears had in the revolution of 1978. But this
time around, none of Iran’s other popular factions was willing to join them. Workers too have
demonstrated from time to time against regime
policies.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

107

As with the intellectuals, the regime has cracked
down, often brutally, on the activities of students,
workers, and members of civil society organizations. Student movements are almost certainly
heavily penetrated by regime intelligence services, and the activists are often not allowed to
register for classes. The regime frequently resorts
to mass arrests to prevent protests from happening, but when dissidents are able to stage effective
rallies, the demonstrators are often beaten, and
counterdemonstrations (often consisting of proregime vigilantes) are swiftly organized to keep
unrest in check. For example, participants in at
least one rally for women’s rights were called in
advance and warned not to go: those who went
anyway faced vigilantes, who beat some demonstrators, and police, who arrested others.55 If this
were not enough, the main student organization,
Daftar-e Takhim-e Vahdat (Office for Consolidation of Unity), is riven with personality disputes
and schisms over strategy and tactics.
Reza Pahlavi
Another name pointed to as a potential leader of
Iran is Reza Pahlavi, the son of the last Shah. In
the United States, Pahlavi has emerged as a leading
critic of the clerical regime, calling for it to be confronted politically and economically. Pahlavi has referred to himself as “a catalyst” to help bring about
regime change and a democratic and constitutional
government (including perhaps a constitutional
monarchy) rather than a return to the absolutist
monarchy of his father.56 While Iranian expatriate-sponsored media have broadcast interviews of
Pahlavi into the Islamic Republic, Pahlavi lacks an
organized following within the country. However,
although some Iranians, particularly younger ones
with no memory of his father’s regime, appear to
evince some nostalgia for the monarchy, there is no
serious monarchist movement in Iran itself.

Less than the Sum of Its Parts
Although the above list of candidates is impressive, many of the individuals rarely work together, and some offer little or could even discredit
a broader movement. Akbar Ganji, an Iranian
journalist whose articles exposed regime murders
and who was imprisoned for six years as punishment, has said of the Iranian opposition, “It’s not
organized. . . . And we still don’t have a leader.”57
Many of these people, like Pahlavi, have little in
common with the intellectuals and students who
make up the core of the reform movement. So far,
no charismatic leader has emerged to unite the
different organizations and inspire other Iranians
to take up the banner of change.

Money
A significant program to promote democracy in
Iran would require far more money than Washington has currently allocated. If the United States
is to go beyond its current modest effort to promote democracy, it would have to spend tens of
millions of dollars a year, if not more. This requirement would grow if the programs are successful: more people would have to be supported, and they would require more equipment to
communicate and travel. In addition, the United
States would have to accept the reality of waste
and fraud. Some of the money would be siphoned
off by schemers, while other money would go to
back figures who turn out to have little support.

Excellent Intelligence
Meddling in the internal politics of another country requires excellent intelligence if the efforts are
to succeed. Indeed, a lack of intelligence can even
lead a program to backfire, as the regime manipulates it to its advantage. To support democratic

Barbara Slavin, Bitter Friends, Bosom Enemies: Iran, the U.S., and the Twisted Path to Confrontation (New York: St. Martin’s Press, 2007),
p. 158.
56
“Reza Pahlavi Offers Senators Three-Pronged Approach on Iran,” PR Newswire, September 14, 2006.
57
Slavin, Bitter Friends, p. 155.
55

108

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

oppositionists, the United States needs to help
them organize and be sure that their message is
getting across. In addition, Washington needs to
support leaders who are effective and who cannot be co-opted by the regime. Without this information, the United States may back the wrong
people or be beguiled by figures who are secretly
controlled by Iranian intelligence.

regime has been ruthless in cracking down on
the slightest hint of domestic unrest. Indeed, this
has always been its first priority, for instance, retaining most of its combat power in Kurdistan to
crush a Kurdish revolt even after the Iraqi invasion of 1980, when Iran had virtually nothing to
stop Saddam Husayn’s tanks as they drove into
oil-rich Khuzestan.59

Unfortunately, it appears that this level of detailed
intelligence on Iran is thus far lacking. Because the
United States lacks an embassy on the ground or
the ability to dispatch personnel to Iran on a regular basis, information on the country’s incredibly
complex politics is often negligible. Much of the
information the United States requires involves an
understanding of Iran’s indigenous political forces
that are extraordinarily difficult for outsiders to
comprehend, let alone recognize the shifting alliances among them in anything like real time. Consequently, strengthening this degree of intelligence
collection in Iran would require the U.S. intelligence community—which has already made Iran a
priority for decades—to intensify its efforts.

Consequently, if the United States ever succeeds
in sparking a revolt against the clerical regime,
Washington may have to consider whether to provide it with some form of military support to prevent Tehran from crushing it. In 1991, after the
Persian Gulf War, the United States called on the
people of Iraq to overthrow Saddam Husayn, and
hundreds of thousands (maybe even a few millions) of Iraqis, mostly Shi’ah and Kurds, heeded
the call and rose up against Saddam. Washington
then decided not to assist them, either by continuing its military operations against the remnants of
Saddam’s forces or by providing weapons, air support, and other assistance to the rebels. Infamously, what remained of Saddam’s Republican Guard
then systematically butchered as many as 100,000
Shi’i and Kurdish rebels and broke the nascent
revolution. If the policy proposed here succeeds
in producing large-scale revolts against the Iranian regime, but nothing else has intervened to
weaken the Iranian military (particularly the regime’s most loyal services like the Revolutionary
Guard, Ansar-e Hizballah [Followers of the Party
of God], and the Basij [militia]), then the United
States may need to be ready to intervene in some
form to prevent the revolutionaries from being
slaughtered in similar fashion.

Military Intervention
One of the few elements that scholars do believe
is a constant in successful popular revolutions is
that the regime must lose the will or the ability
to employ violence effectively to crush the revolution.58 It seems unlikely that the Islamic regime will lose the will to crush internal threats
to its rule. It is widely rumored among Iranians
that Iran’s current leaders believe that the only
reason that they succeeded in overthrowing the
Shah in 1978 was because he lost his nerve and
refused to let the army crush the revolution (as
many of his generals wanted)—and they have no
intention of falling as he did. Since 1979, the

This requirement means that a popular revolution in Iran does not seem to fit the model of
the “velvet revolutions” that occurred elsewhere.

 eda Skocpol, States and Social Revolutions: A Comparative Analysis of France, Russia and China (New York: Cambridge University Press,
Th
1979); Theda Skocpol, Social Revolutions in the Modern World (New York: Cambridge University Press, 1994).
59
Ray Takeyh, Guardians of the Revolution (New York: Oxford University Press, forthcoming), p. 90.
58

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

109

The point is that the Iranian regime may not be
willing to go gently into that good night; instead,
and unlike so many Eastern European regimes, it
may choose to fight to the death. In those circumstances, if there is not external military assistance
to the revolutionaries, they might not just fail but
be massacred.
Consequently, if the United States is to pursue
this policy, Washington must take this possibility
into consideration. It adds some very important
requirements to the list: either the policy must
include ways to weaken the Iranian military or
weaken the willingness of the regime’s leaders to
call on the military, or else the United States must
be ready to intervene to defeat it.

Pros and Cons
The following are the advantages and disadvantages of supporting a popular uprising.

Advantages:
 At least on paper, more than any other option, regime change offers the greatest potential benefits for the least cost. If it is successful, regime change could alter Iran from one
of America’s biggest enemies to a potential
friend while at the same time changing an oppressive regime to a democratic one (in some
variations), or at least one that is probably
more friendly. In addition, this change could
occur at a fraction of the cost of overthrowing
the regime by mounting an invasion.
 Even if triggering a popular revolution
proves impossible, supporting Iranian opposition groups could still weaken and distract the regime and possibly limit its ability to make mischief elsewhere.
 Even if a revolution does not occur during
the tenure of the current administration, a

110

steady, low-profile effort to bolster democracy in Iran may pay dividends in years or
decades to come.
 Some elements of the policy, such as trying
to increase intelligence penetration of Iran’s
military and security services, should be
implemented even if Washington chooses
not to adopt the whole approach. Many
of these programs can be continued with
much less fanfare and, if anything, become
more effective in the long term for other
policy options.
 B
 y adopting regime change as its policy,
the United States can demonstrate a commitment to its democratic ideals that has
been sadly lacking in past decades, a situation that has greatly damaged the status
of the United States in the Muslim world.
Claims of double standards in democracy
and “Arab exceptionalism”—by which Middle Easterners mean that the United States
promotes democracy everywhere else in the
world except the Middle East, where it is
comfortable with autocracies that guarantee the oil flow—are key elements of the anti-Americanism that dominates the Middle
Eastern street. If the Iranian regime continues to foment instability across the Middle
East, and the United States and the international community are unwilling to stop it,
at the very least, the United States would always be able to say that it never enabled or
appeased that trend. Washington may not
succeed in stopping Tehran, but it would
not have been complicit in assisting it.

Disadvantages:
 Th
 e biggest challenge to regime change
would be its feasibility. For all its many
shortcomings, the Iranian government
is well entrenched. As Suzanne Maloney

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

notes, “The Islamic Republic has survived every calamity short of the plague:
war, isolation, instability, terrorist attacks,
leadership transition, drought and epic
earthquakes.”60 The regime is absolutely
paranoid about the slightest hint of internal revolt and has successfully repressed,
co-opted, or isolated potential sources of
resistance.

are overwhelming), and may continue to
pursue its nuclear program (support for
a nuclear program is robust among most
Iranian elites). However, it is possible that
new leaders might be more open to cooperating with Washington on these issues and
generally would be more sensitive to international opinion and economic pressures
than the current regime.

 As a result, the regime has made it extremely difficult for opposition movements
to survive, let alone thrive and gain popular
support. Ultimately, those oppositionists
who are most organized have at best marginal prospects, and many are risky bets.

 U
 .S. support may backfire. In the past,
and especially since the 1978 revolution,
American backing has typically been the
kiss of death for internal Iranian opposition groups (for instance, very modest U.S.
efforts to support regime change in the
1990s helped discredit reformers in Iran).
So many Iranians instinctively bristle at
American meddling in their country’s affairs that even groups favorably disposed to
the United States typically refuse to accept
any American support for fear of being discredited among the people as foreign lackeys, and being arrested and charged with
treason by the government. As such, many
leading reformers in Iran have spoken out
against U.S. funding for democracy promotion or other efforts to encourage regime
change in Iran. Today, as Abbas Milani of
Stanford University notes, “Anyone who
wants American money in Iran is going
to be tainted in the eyes of Iranians.”62 Not
surprisingly, the State Department has often found it difficult to spend the money it
has allocated to promote democracy.63 It is
thus possible that an aggressive U.S. regime
change policy may lead to a weaker democratic movement.

 The results of regime change may be less
to Washington’s liking than expected. As
Richard Haass points out, ousting a regime
is hard enough, but replacing a regime with
a government that serves U.S. interests and
governs well is far harder yet.61
 Even democratic regime change would not
necessarily bring to power a pro-American
government. Despite the desire on the part
of many Iranians for closer relations with
the United States, U.S. policies in the region
remain unpopular with most Iranians, and
past U.S. meddling and current U.S. efforts to
isolate Iran also may be viewed with hostility. That said, most alternatives to the current
regime would probably be less supportive
of terrorism and, in general, less reflexively
anti-American in their policies. Iran would
still be likely to try to maintain a strong position in Iraq (where its geopolitical interests

Suzanne Maloney, “Fear and Loathing in Tehran,” National Interest (September/October 2007).
Richard Haass, “Regime Change and Its Limits,” Foreign Affairs 84, no. 4 (July/August 2005): pp. 66-78.
62
As quoted in Tom Barry, “Iran Freedom and Regime Change Politics,” May 19, 2006. Available at <http://rightweb.irc-online.org/rw/3277.
html>. The quote is taken from the New York Times.
63
Negar Azimi, “Hard Realities of Soft Power,” New York Times, June 24, 2007.
60
61

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

111

 Greater efforts to promote democracy and
work with opposition figures may prompt
the regime to crack down harder. Increased
(and very high-profile) U.S. funding for
democracy promotion in Iran in the past
five years led to a crackdown on Iranians
involved in Track II dialogue and on those
trying to develop civil society organizations. The attention given to the Bush Administration’s program to promote democracy in Iran suggests the problems with this
approach. Although the overall amount of
money is a fraction of what a sustained
democracy program would require, the
Iranian government has proven exceptionally paranoid about it. Iranian intelligence
officials regularly bring up this appropriation when they interrogate activists.64 As
a result, many Iranians are wary of activities that could even indirectly be linked
to the United States.65 As Fariba Davoodi
Mohajer, who has campaigned for women’s
rights in Iran, contends, U.S. support for
civil society “becomes a ready tool for the
Iranian government to use against totally
independent activists. It’s been very counterproductive.”66
 Should efforts take off and a mass movement develop, the clerical regime is unlikely to go without a fight. The regime might
resort to a brutal crackdown that leads to
the death and imprisonment of thousands.
Its rhetoric and actions against the reform
movement in the past indicate that it believes violence is legitimate and that it does

not need to have the support of the Iranian
people for its actions, as long as it can justify them according to the regime’s ruling
Islamic credo. It appears more likely than
not that loyal military units would fire into
crowds, and the regime would not hesitate
to carry out mass trials to stay in power.
 Regardless of the policy’s ultimate outcome,
Iran is likely to retaliate almost immediately against the United States just for having
supported reformers and other oppositionists. Tehran is exceptionally sensitive to the
security of the regime, and its current leaders are loyal to their vision of the legacy of
the Islamic Revolution. If the United States
directly threatened its power with a massive campaign, Tehran would likely take
several steps. First, it would step up its support for guerrilla and terrorist groups. Iraq
would be a particularly likely venue given
Iran’s extensive paramilitary and intelligence presence there, as well as the availability of many U.S. targets. Afghanistan,
too, would be a likely theater for an Iranian
response. Attacks elsewhere in the Middle
East and Europe would also be quite possible. Second, because U.S. efforts to promote
regime change would affirm Iran’s paranoia
about its own security, Tehran would reinforce its already high commitment to its
nuclear program. Third, Iran might step
up its military buildup, though even a significant investment would have only a marginal impact on the U.S.-Iran conventional
military balance.

Robin Wright, “On Guard over U.S. Funds, Pro-Democracy Program Leads Tehran to Scrutinize Activists,” Washington Post, April 28, 2007.
Azimi, “Hard Realities.”
66
Wright, “On Guard over U.S. Funds.”
64
65

112

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

Chapter 7

INSPIRING AN INSURGENCY
Supporting Iranian Minority and Opposition
Groups

A

s much as many Americans might like to
help the Iranian people rise up and take
their destiny in their own hands, the evidence
suggests that its likelihood is low—and that
American assistance could well make it less likely rather than more. Consequently, some who favor fomenting regime change in Iran argue that
it is utopian to hold out hope for a velvet revolution; instead, they contend that the United States
should turn to Iranian opposition groups that
already exist, that already have demonstrated a
desire to fight the regime, and who appear willing to accept U.S. assistance. The hope behind
this course of action is that these various opposition groups could transform themselves into
more potent movements that might be able to
overturn the regime.
For instance, the United States could opt to work
primarily with various unhappy Iranian ethnic
groups (Kurds, Baluch, Arabs, and so on) who
have fought the regime at various periods since
the revolution. A coalition of ethnic opposition
movements, particularly if combined with dissident Persians, would pose a serious threat to regime stability. In addition, the unrest the groups
themselves create could weaken the regime at
home. At the least, the regime would have to divert resources to putting down the rebellions. At
most, the unrest might discredit the regime over
time, weakening its position vis-à-vis its rivals.

The United States could also attempt to promote
external Iranian opposition groups, providing
them with the support to turn themselves into
full-fledged insurgencies and even helping them
militarily defeat the forces of the clerical regime.
The United States could work with groups like the
Iraq-based National Council of Resistance of Iran
(NCRI) and its military wing, the Mujahedin-e
Khalq (MEK), helping the thousands of its members who, under Saddam Husayn’s regime, were
armed and had conducted guerrilla and terrorist
operations against the clerical regime. Although
the NCRI is supposedly disarmed today, that
could quickly be changed.

Goal
Supporting an insurgency could have two different potential goals, with one effectively a fallback
position of the other. Like supporting a popular
revolution, one goal of supporting an insurgency
would be to try to overthrow the Iranian regime
altogether, in the expectation that doing so would
alleviate America’s problems with Iran.
However, even if U.S. support for an insurgency
failed to produce the overthrow of the regime, it
could still place Tehran under considerable pressure, which might either prevent the regime from
making mischief abroad or persuade it to make
concessions on issues of importance to the United

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

113

States (such as its nuclear program and support
to Hamas, Hizballah, and the Taliban). Indeed,
Washington might decide that this second objective is a more compelling rationale for supporting
an insurgency than the (much less likely) goal of
actually overthrowing the regime.

Time Frame
Insurgencies take a long time to succeed, when
they succeed at all. It takes time for insurgents
to identify leaders and recruit personnel, establish bases and gather equipment, and learn tactics and proficiency with weapons. It takes even
longer to win popular support, erode the morale
of the government’s armed forces, and then undermine the government’s legitimacy. There are
often crippling setbacks along the way, during
which even an ultimately successful insurgency
may need to spend months or years regrouping
and rebuilding.
For all of these reasons, insurgencies typically
take decades to overthrow a government. Over
the past century, successful counterinsurgency
campaigns lasted an average of about nine years,
and these were typically only mounted against
insurgencies that had demonstrated the capability to threaten the government’s grip on power,
either in a region or the nation as a whole, and
thus were already fairly advanced. The Afghan
mujahideen—one of the most successful insurgencies of recent times—took ten years to evict
the Soviets from Afghanistan. The Viet Cong and
the Chinese Communists each took more than
twice as long to succeed in their respective conflicts. Fidel Castro’s guerrilla war took less than
six years to overthrow the Batista regime in Cuba,
but this victory came against a badly disorganized
regime defended by demoralized and disaffected
troops. It would be difficult to replicate Castro’s
rapid success against a well-entrenched Iranian
regime that can still muster numerous fanatical
defenders.

114

Consequently, if the goal of this policy is to actually overthrow the Iranian regime, doing so
would take many years, if not several decades.
It is clearly not a quick fix to Washington’s nearterm problems with Iran. However, there are two
exceptions to the rule that insurgencies take a
long time to reach their goal.
First, if the goal of an insurgency is merely to put
pressure on the regime, the goal could be met
much more quickly than the time span outlined
above. History has shown that depending on the
state of the insurgency when a foreign power
decided to back it, pressure was produced on
the targeted regime in as little as a few years or
even months. When the Shah of Iran, the United States, and Israel began to back Iraqi Kurds
against Baghdad, it took only a few years for the
Ba’thist regime to move against it—and only a
matter of months of unsuccessful military campaigning to convince Saddam Husayn to cut a
deal with the Shah to persuade him to cut his ties
with the Kurds.
Second, even if the goal remains to overthrow
the regime, an insurgency can be greatly assisted by outside conventional military assistance.
A good example of this was the U.S. air support
and special forces personnel deployed to help Afghanistan’s Northern Alliance during Operation
Enduring Freedom in 2001. The Northern Alliance was a competent military force, but it had
no chance of overthrowing the Taliban until the
United States decided to provide direct military
assistance after the 9/11 attacks. When the United States did so, the Taliban regime cracked in a
matter of weeks as the Northern Alliance took
control of the country.

Overview of the Policy
The core concept lying at the heart of this option
would be for the United States to identify one
or more Iranian opposition groups and support

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

them as it did other insurgencies in Afghanistan,
Nicaragua, Kurdistan, Angola, and dozens of other locales since the Second World War. The United States would provide arms, money, training,
and organizational assistance to help the groups
develop and extend their reach. U.S. media and
propaganda outlets could highlight group grievances and showcase rival leaders. The United
States would help the groups identify a base in a
neighboring country, secure the host nation’s support for the groups, and help them develop an infrastructure to support operations in Iran.
A key question that the United States would
have to address would be the extent of its direct
military support to the groups. The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) could take care of most
of the supplies and training for these groups, as
it has for decades all over the world. However,
Washington would need to decide whether to
provide the groups with direct military assistance
under three scenarios:
1. As general support to allow the groups
a much greater chance of success and a
much more rapid pace of victory. As noted
above, massive external conventional military assistance can greatly assist an insurgency. Again, U.S. support to the Northern
Alliance against the Taliban regime in Afghanistan in 2001 is a good example.
2. To prevent a massacre of the insurgents.
Not all insurgencies succeed, and some
fail disastrously. In Iraq in 1991 when the
Shi’ah and Kurds revolted against Saddam
Husayn, and in Cuba at the Bay of Pigs 30
years before, American-backed insurgents
called for American military aid when
they were on the brink of disaster. In both
cases, the United States turned its back
on them, and they were slaughtered. The
United States should decide well ahead of
time whether it would commit military

forces to prevent a massacre. If it is prepared to respond, it should have the necessary forces in place near Iran so that they
are available if needed.
3. To protect neighboring countries providing sanctuary to the insurgents. Any
insurgency against the Iranian regime
would need a safe haven and conduit for
arms and other supplies through one or
more of Iran’s neighbors. The clerical regime may decide to retaliate against those
neighboring states to try to force them to
desist, and the United States may be called
upon to protect them. During the Vietnam
War, Viet Cong fighters had their sanctuary in North Vietnam, and many Americans wanted to invade the North to force
it to halt this practice. The U.S. military
famously did mount a protracted and unsuccessful coercive air campaign against
the North to try to persuade it to end such
support. However, the United States chose
not to launch an invasion, in part for fear
that China and Russia would come to Hanoi’s defense.
It seems unlikely that any American administration would be willing to provide the kind of
military support envisioned in the first of these
scenarios. Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan was closer to an invasion than an insurgency, and mounting a similar campaign
against Iran would give up all of the advantages
of an insurgency in terms of plausible deniability,
thereby undercutting the willingness of neighboring states to support it. Unfortunately, the second
situation is a very real possibility that the United
States has faced on other occasions. The third
situation could also occur and so Washington
would have to be ready to come to the defense of
the neighboring states supporting the guerrillas,
or else face the prospect of losing their support in
the bid to overthrow the regime.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

115

Requirements
The United States should expect to provide an array of assistance to insurgents, depending on their
military skill and their degree of popular support.
The more competent and popular the insurgents
are, the less they would need American aid. Still,
U.S. training could greatly augment the effectiveness of their existing forces, and arms and funding could improve their equipment and help
them recruit. Direct U.S. military support could
help them conduct effective operations and defeat
larger Iranian military forces.
Consequently, the United States would have to expect to invest a fair amount of money, weaponry,
and other resources in the insurgencies it chose to
back. However, especially when compared to the
cost of conventional military operations, insurgencies are a bargain. For instance, the entire program to support the Afghan mujahideen against
the Soviet occupation from 1979 to 1989 cost the
United States only $600 million a year, compared
to the $21 billion a year the country has spent on
average in Afghanistan since 2001.67
Nevertheless, mounting an insurgency against
Tehran, especially one that might threaten the regime’s survival, would be a difficult undertaking,
and there are at least two major requirements:
finding an insurgent group that could mount such
a challenge and finding a neighboring state willing
to act as the conduit (and safe haven) for the group.

Finding a Proxy
The first—and potentially most problematic—requirement to implement this option is to identify
a potential insurgent group that is willing and
able to play this role with American assistance.
The best candidate for such a role would be a

broad-based opposition group with cohesiveness,
some history of armed resistance, a clear leadership, and widespread popular support. Unfortunately, none of the current candidates can claim
to meet all of those criteria. Consequently, the
United States would have to opt either for ethnic
groups that possess the cohesiveness, leadership,
and popular support from a segment of Iranian
society, or for the MEK—which arguably has the
leadership and cohesiveness but has little popular
support at present.
Potential Ethnic Proxies
Although Persians dominate Iran, they represent
only half of the population. At least to some outside observers, Iran appears rife with ethnic unrest, and these cleavages could become the means
by which the United States could try to mobilize
one or more insurgencies against the Islamic regime. Tehran has often been harsh in its crackdowns on minority groups, many of which are
concentrated away from the capital and thus are
hidden from media attention. Iran’s Arab and
Baluch populations both are poor and suffer from
discrimination. As a result, Arab separatists in
the southwestern province of Khuzestan have
conducted a number of terrorist bombings in the
regional capital of Ahvaz in recent years. In addition, Iran’s Kurdish population is large and, after
the 1979 revolution, sustained a bloody rebellion
that lasted several years and led to the deaths of
thousands of Kurds. The anger and strife continue to this day: in 2005, after Iranian police killed a
Kurdish leader, 20 Kurds died in demonstrations.
Despite the harsh crackdowns, the Iranian regime
is weak in parts of the country. In Kurdish and
Baluchi areas in particular, the government has
never established comprehensive governance.
Instead, several groups have strong tribal ties,
and in the case of the Kurds, a cohesive sense of

Amy Belasco, “The Cost of Iraq, Afghanistan, and Other Global War on Terror Operations since 9/11,” RL33110, Congressional Research
Service, October 15, 2008, pp. 2, 6 and 7; Gilles Kepel, Jihad (Cambridge, MA: Belknap, 2002), p. 143.

67

116

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

identity that is not tied to the regime. The groups
have used smuggling to strengthen themselves,
bringing in weapons, to the point where many
are now well-armed. Geography and terrain have
helped these groups resist Tehran, as large parts of
Iran are rugged and thus good guerrilla country.
Although these groups are more organized than
students and workers and, in the Kurdish case,
represent a sizeable entity, their ability to mobilize
beyond their communities is limited. Persians tend
to be highly nationalistic and would have to be expected to unite over any perceived attempt to fragment the country. Nor are there strong ties among
the non-Persian groups, and in the past, these
divisions have allowed them to be contained and
defeated piecemeal. Some large ethnic groups also
have no desire to oppose the regime. For instance,
Iran’s Azeri population, which represents roughly a
quarter of the country’s overall population are well
integrated (Supreme Leader Khamene’i is of Azeri
origin) and have worked closely with Persian elites.
As the above discussion suggests, the Kurds are
the most likely proxy given their size, cohesive
identity, and ambitions. The Kurds, however, are
divided internally, and many of their leaders have
been co-opted by the state, while those who have
not are often subject to brutal intimidation. Iranian intelligence aggressively targets Kurdish leaders
abroad, whether in Iraq or Europe—even to the
point of assassination. The Kurds are also justifiably suspicious of outside promises, having been
used and discarded in the past. Finally, stirring
Kurdish separatism in Iran would not play well
in either Baghdad or Ankara, two key American
allies whose aid would be needed for any insurgent campaign against Iran.

National Council of Resistance/
Mujahedin-e Khalq
Perhaps the most prominent (and certainly the
most controversial) opposition group that has attracted attention as a potential U.S. proxy is the
NCRI (National Council of Resistance of Iran),
the political movement established by the MEK
(Mujahedin-e Khalq). Critics believe the group
to be undemocratic and unpopular, and indeed
anti-American. In contrast, the group’s champions contend that the movement’s long-standing
opposition to the Iranian regime and record of
successful attacks on and intelligence-gathering
operations against the regime make it worthy of
U.S. support. They also argue that the group is no
longer anti-American and question the merit of
earlier accusations. Raymond Tanter, one of the
group’s supporters in the United States, contends
that the MEK and the NCRI are allies for regime
change in Tehran and also act as a useful proxy for
gathering intelligence.68 The MEK’s greatest intelligence coup was the provision of intelligence in
2002 that led to the discovery of a secret site in
Iran for enriching uranium.
Despite its defenders’ claims, the MEK remains
on the U.S. government list of foreign terrorist organizations. In the 1970s, the group killed
three U.S. officers and three civilian contractors
in Iran.69 During the 1979-1980 hostage crisis,
the group praised the decision to take American
hostages and Elaine Sciolino reported that while
group leaders publicly condemned the 9/11 attacks, within the group celebrations were widespread.70 Undeniably, the group has conducted
terrorist attacks—often excused by the MEK’s advocates because they are directed against the Iranian government. For example, in 1981, the group

Raymond Tanter, “Iran Building Nuclear-Capable Missiles in Secret Tunnels: Options for the International Community,” Iran Policy
Committee, November 21, 2005, available at <http://www.iranwatch.org/privateviews/IPC/perspex-ipc-tanternuclearcapablemissiles-112105.htm>.
69
The MEK claims the individuals responsible were executed by the Shah’s regime and thus are no longer part of the movement. See Slavin,
Bitter Friends, p. 168.
70
Elaine Sciolino, “Iranian Opposition Movement’s Many Faces,” New York Times, June 30, 2003.
68

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

117

bombed the headquarters of the Islamic Republic
Party, which was then the clerical leadership’s
main political organization, killing an estimated
70 senior officials. More recently, the group has
claimed credit for over a dozen mortar attacks,
assassinations, and other assaults on Iranian civilian and military targets between 1998 and 2001.
At the very least, to work more closely with the
group (at least in an overt manner), Washington
would need to remove it from the list of foreign
terrorist organizations.
The group itself also appears to be undemocratic
and enjoys little popularity in Iran itself. It has no
political base in the country, although it appears
to have an operational presence. In particular,
its active participation on Saddam Husayn’s side
during the bitter Iran-Iraq War made the group
widely loathed. In addition, many aspects of the
group are cultish, and its leaders, Massoud and
Maryam Rajavi, are revered to the point of obsession. As Iran scholar Ervand Abrahamian claims,
“It is a mystical cult. . . . If Massoud Rajavi got up
tomorrow and said the world was flat, his members would accept it.”71
Despite its limited popularity (but perhaps because of its successful use of terrorism), the Iranian regime is exceptionally sensitive to the MEK
and is vigilant in guarding against it. During the
early years of the revolution, the regime rooted
out members throughout Iran and massacred
demonstrators who marched in the group’s name.
Abroad, the regime monitors the group’s activities
carefully, tries to disrupt its bases, and at times
has assassinated its members.

Finding a Conduit and Safe Haven
Of equal importance (and potential difficulty)
will be finding a neighboring country willing to
serve as the conduit for U.S. aid to the insurgent
71

118

group, as well as to provide a safe haven where
the group can train, plan, organize, heal, and
resupply. This was the role that Pakistan played
when the United States provided aid to the Afghan mujahideen in the 1980s, and the Shah’s
Iran played when the United States provided aid
to the Kurds in the 1970s. Without such a partner, it would be far more difficult for the United
States to support an insurgency. One thing that
the United States would have in its favor when
searching for a state to play this role is that many
of Iran’s neighbors dislike and fear the Islamic
Republic.
However, balanced against that are a series of
hurdles that the United States would have to overcome. Even those states that loathe and fear Tehran have left no doubt that they do not seek an
open conflict with Iran, and supporting an insurgency could provoke Iranian retaliation. Moreover, these states fear Tehran would likely retaliate
through its unconventional warfare capabilities
by increasing support for insurgents, terrorists,
and other opposition groups in any neighboring
state that supports the insurgency.
To deal with this, the United States would not
only have to reassure the neighboring state, but
also potentially provide real aid. The neighboring state may seek American counterterrorism
assistance as a way of bracing itself for Iranian
unconventional retaliation. It might ask for a
more conventional commitment of American
military protection to deter Iranian aggression. And, almost certainly, the state would use
its fear of Tehran’s response to get other things
from the United States. For instance, during
the 1980s, the Pakistanis demanded stepped up
American arms sales and military training (for a
conventional war against India) in return for its
help in Afghanistan, despite the fact that no one
benefited more from the American aid to the

Ibid.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

mujahideen than did Pakistan. The United States
would have to expect the same or similar from
Iran’s neighbors, which include Pakistan—an
obvious conduit for American support to a Baluchi insurgency.

committed to opposing the regime with
force, and have some history of having
done so. Moreover, at least some of these
groups have indicated a willingness to accept support from the United States.

There is another likely obstacle to securing a
neighboring safe haven for ethnic insurgencies
against Tehran: many of those ethnic groups span
the borders between Iran and the potential sponsoring state, which often has the same problems
with that ethnic group as does Tehran. Both the
Turks and Iraqis would be logical conduits to support a Kurdish insurgency against Iran, but that is
highly unlikely because both Baghdad and Ankara fear Kurdish aspirations for independence and
believe that supporting an armed Kurdish bid for
independence against Iran (which is inevitably
what a Kurdish insurgency would aim for) would
galvanize their own Kurdish populations to seek
the same.

 Even if this policy failed to overthrow the
regime, supporting one or more insurgencies would put pressure on Tehran. It
would divert the regime’s attention and
resources, possibly limiting its ability to
make mischief elsewhere in the region. It
also might make Iran more amenable to
compromise on issues of importance to
the United States in return for Washington’s agreement to cease its support to the
various insurgent groups.

Pros and Cons
The following are the advantages and disadvantages of supporting an insurgency.

Advantages:
 This approach has some potential to overturn the regime and bring to power another government more amenable to the
United States.
 While an insurgency is typically less dangerous to the regime than a popular revolution (if only because insurgencies often
take longer and follow a more predictable
course), an insurgency is often easier to
instigate and support from abroad. Unlike
the option of trying to promote a popular revolution, supporting one or more
insurgencies against the regime would
rely on groups that are already organized,

 Th
 is option requires relatively few resources. Insurgencies are famously cheap to support, hence Iran’s ability to support them in
the Palestinian territories, Lebanon, Iraq,
and Afghanistan simultaneously.
 The United States has considerable experience supporting insurgencies and has enjoyed a number of successes in doing so
over the years.
 P
 roperly executed, covert support to an insurgency would provide the United States
with “plausible deniability.” As a result, the
diplomatic and political backlash would
likely be much less than if the United States
were to mount a direct military action.

Disadvantages:
 It would be difficult to find or build an insurgency with a high likelihood of success.
The existing candidates are weak and divided, and the Iranian regime is very strong
relative to the potential internal and external challengers.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

119

 Supporting one or more insurgency groups
is much less likely than a popular revolution to produce actual regime change in
Iran. The Kurds, the Baluch, the Arabs of
Khuzestan—none of these groups is likely to
trigger a nationwide movement to topple the
regime. Indeed, they are more likely to rally
Iran’s majority Persian community (54 percent of the population) around the regime.
This is not to say that an insurgency could
not accomplish meaningful results, only
that it would be difficult for an insurgency
to produce true regime change—let alone
do so in time to prevent the regime from acquiring a nuclear weapons capability.
 A “successful” insurgency is more likely to
allow the group waging it to achieve more
limited goals, such as secession. Successful
cases of secession have an historical tendency to trigger additional bids for secession among other neighboring groups.72 In
the case of Iran, that could easily include
the Iraqi and Turkish Kurds, or a variety of
Caucasian or Central Asian groups, which
would then provoke civil conflict in those
countries.
 An “unsuccessful” but well-supported insurgency could easily produce a civil war
instead, with the insurgency unable to
secede or topple the government but, because of its foreign backing, able to keep on
fighting. Civil war itself has a tendency to
produce dangerous forms of spillover that
can destabilize neighboring states.73 Again,
since many of Iran’s neighbors are important allies of the United States, this could be
potentially harmful to American interests.

 Iran would likely fight back, and the United States would be engaging Iran in the
dimension of warfare at which it is most
adept. Iran’s greatest military strength lies
in the realm of “unconventional warfare”—
insurgencies, terrorism, and other forms
of low-intensity conflict. While the United
States also has formidable capabilities in
this arena (capabilities greatly improved by
its experience in Iraq and Afghanistan), the
U.S. advantage here is not as overwhelming as it is at the conventional level. Doubtless, the Iranians would respond with terrorist attacks, as well as ramping up their
support to the Taliban and anti-American
groups in Iraq. They might also encourage
Hamas and Hizballah to be more aggressive toward Israel. As best we can tell, the
1996 Khobar Towers blast was an Iranian
response to an $18 million increase in the
U.S. covert action budget against Iran in
1994-1995. Although that covert action
program posed little threat to Tehran at the
time (and another $18 million was a paltry sum for the United States), the Iranians
apparently saw it as a declaration of covert
war and may have destroyed the Khobar
Towers complex (killing 19 American servicemen) as a way of warning the United
States of the consequences of such a campaign. Washington would have to assume
that Tehran would react in similar fashion
if the United States were to launch a far
more determined effort than in the past.
 If the United States commits to supporting
an insurgent group, whether it is galvanized
by ethnic, ideological, or political forces, it
may have to make some very tough choices

 aniel L. Byman and Kenneth M. Pollack, Things Fall Apart: Containing the Spillover from an Iraqi Civil War (Washington: Brookings
D
Institution Press, 2007), esp. pp. 35-37.
73
Ibid., pp. 20-45.
72

120

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

at some point regarding how far it is willing
to support that group. In particular, what
if the regime offers the United States major concessions in return for an American
agreement to stop supporting the insurgency? If Washington agrees, the insurgents
would likely be slaughtered without the
American aid, but how could Washington
refuse if the Iranians offer the United States
something that would meet its ultimate objectives concerning Iran? In 1974-1975, the
United States agreed to help Iran support
Kurdish insurgents fighting the Ba’thist regime in Iraq. But in 1975, Saddam Husayn
gave in to all the Shah’s demands on territorial issues in return for Iran pulling the
plug on the Kurds (and since U.S. support
was provided via Iran, that terminated U.S.
assistance as well). The Shah agreed and the
Kurds were massacred. Alternatively, the
United States could find itself in a Bay of
Pigs–like situation: the regime might crush

the insurgency despite American support,
and then Washington would have to decide
whether to intervene militarily to prevent a
complete rout. Either situation would present Washington with a Hobson’s choice: the
United States would lose no matter which
course it took.
 The only nonethnic opposition group that
is organized, armed, and committed to
fighting the regime is the MEK. However,
as noted, the MEK has badly alienated the
Iranian population by its behavior over the
years, and American support to the MEK
might simply antagonize Iranians toward
the United States without meaningfully
advancing U.S. interests. At the very least,
if the United States commits itself to this
course of action, Washington should insist
that the MEK reform itself and demonstrate
that it has rebuilt some degree of popularity
in Iran before taking up its cause.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

121

Chapter 8

THE COUP
Supporting a Military Move against
the Regime

B

ecause the evidence suggests that it would be
hard to move the Iranian people to revolution—even though this would be the best way
to effect real regime change—and because supporting an insurgency seems unlikely to achieve
regime change quickly, if at all, some Americans
have explored the possibility of encouraging a
military coup. A nation’s armed forces always have
an intrinsic capability to depose the government,
even if a strongly ingrained professional ethos
makes it highly unlikely that they would do so.
The Iranian armed forces certainly have a much
greater ability to unseat the current regime than
any potential Iranian insurgent group. Moreover,
coups are typically more successful and easier to
instigate and assist from abroad than popular revolutions. Consequently, a military coup has advantages where both the popular revolution and
insurgency options have disadvantages.
Unfortunately, the notion of engineering a military coup in Iran has its own disadvantages as well,
and these are considerable. The Iranian regime
is well aware of the potential for a coup and has
thoroughly politicized its various armed forces to
minimize the chances. It has two complete militaries—the Iranian Armed Forces (Artesh) and
the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (Sepahe Pasdaran-e Enqilab-e Eslami)—which compete for the regime’s favor and are used to watch
and balance each other. Beyond that, Iran has a

122

pervasive intelligence and security apparatus that
monitors all of its military personnel carefully
for any signs of disloyalty or foreign contact that
could be tip-offs of a future coup attempt. Moreover, the United States has no official presence
in Iran, and the diplomats of U.S. allies in the
country are closely watched by the Iranian security services, making it difficult to contact Iranian military personnel to determine whether any
might be interested in moving against the regime.
Indeed, for that reason, the United States has historically found the loyalty of the Iranian armed
forces difficult to judge. If the president were to
order the CIA to pursue this option, it is not clear
where the folks at Langley would even start.

Goal
The ultimate goal of a policy of supporting a military coup against Tehran would be to try to replace the Islamic Republic with another government more amenable to American interests in the
Middle East and Central Asia. In this sense, this
policy option is considerably closer to the idea of
instigating a popular revolution than it is to supporting an insurgency. Moreover, like fomenting
a popular revolution, supporting a coup in Iran
would be difficult to use as a means of pressuring
the regime to make compromises. It is the nature of coups that if the regime has any inkling
that one is afoot, it will likely be able to crush it.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y T o wa r d I r a n

Consequently, it is hard for an external power to
use the threat of a coup as a form of pressure.74

Time Frame
The timing of a coup is difficult to gauge for two
different reasons. First, it is impossible to know
how long it would take to make contact with
would-be coup plotters. As noted above, the
United States does not have a diplomatic presence
in Iran, and it is hard for Americans to travel the
country easily—let alone to meet with members
of the Iranian armed forces. There may well be
officers who would like to stage a coup, but U.S.
agents may never come in contact with them. Alternatively, it may be that there are not any, and
the United States would have to hope that some
might change their minds some time soon (or else
find a way to persuade them to do so). If there is
no one ready to move against the regime, it is impossible to predict when someone might be. And
even if there are officers ready to do so, it is impossible to predict if and when the United States
would be able to find them.
If this hurdle can be overcome, it then becomes
difficult to gauge when the coup would actually
happen. Inevitably, the timing of a coup is almost
entirely determined by the plotters themselves, as
they are in the best position to know when they
will be ready and when the regime would be vulnerable. It is extremely difficult for an outside
power to order up a coup on a specific date—although the outside power can certainly have input
into that decision, especially if it is to provide direct support of some kind before, during, or after
the coup itself. Typically, coups take some time to
prepare as the cabal will want to recruit supporters, conduct reconnaissance, and plan the operation and its possible contingencies. A cabal that

74

waits too long typically is exposed and rounded
up by the regime. Plotters that do not take enough
time to prepare often fail in the execution and are
killed or arrested by the regime. The problem is
that there is no mathematical formula to determine how much recruitment, reconnaissance,
and planning is just right. Thus, even after the
coup plotters have been identified and contacted,
it may take weeks, months, or even years for them
to pull the trigger.

Overview of the Policy
Mounting a coup is hard work, especially in a
state as paranoid about foreign influence and
meddling as Iran is. The United States would
first have to make contact with members of Iran’s
military (and likely its security services as well).
This by itself is very difficult. Because of Iranian
hypersensitivity to Americans, the United States
would likely have to rely on “cutouts”—third
party nationals working on behalf of the United
States—which invariably introduces considerable
complexity. Then the United States would have to
use those contacts to try to identify Iranian military personnel who were both willing and able to
stage a coup, which would be more difficult still;
it would be hard enough for Americans to make
contact with Iranian military officers, let alone
make contact with those specific individuals willing to risk their lives and their families in a coup
attempt. Of course, it is possible that if Washington makes very clear that it is trying to support
a coup in Iran, the coup plotters will reach out
to the United States. But this is very rare: history
shows that coup plotters willing to expose themselves to another national government are usually discovered and killed; furthermore, most of
those coming to the United States to ask for help
overthrowing this or that government tend to be

It is not impossible to do so, just very hard. The foreign power can use a known propensity to support any coup plot against the regime as an
indiscriminate threat, which the regime might want to see ended by making concessions to the foreign power. Theoretically, all this is
possible, but since it is much easier to snuff out coup plots than to instigate them, in practice, this would be difficult to accomplish.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

123

poseurs or even counterintelligence agents of the
targeted government.
In truth, the most successful coup plots are those
that do not require much, if any, outside assistance because they then have the least risk of exposure. Since plotters must be secretive in order
to prevent the government from preempting the
coup, they should be small in number. To succeed, once a coup is launched, it requires that
the plotters seize power rapidly. They must then
either quickly win the support of potential rivals
or neutralize them, often by consolidating control
before any opposition can organize. Military and
security forces whose leaders are not part of the
plot must already be sympathetic, or if they are
not, their leaders must be co-opted or arrested in
order to prevent them from reversing the coup.
Although many coups are homegrown, one obvious historic model of a foreign-assisted coup in
Iran is Operation Ajax, the 1953 coup d’état that
overthrew the government of Prime Minister
Mohammed Mossadeq and reinstated the rule
of Shah Reza Pahlavi. To carry out the coup, the
CIA and British intelligence supported General
Fazlollah Zahedi, providing him and his followers
with money and propaganda, as well as helping
organize their activities.75
To engineer a coup today, the United States could
play multiple roles. Intelligence officials could
identify military and security service officers to
recruit and help them communicate securely.
U.S. money could suborn potentially disloyal
officers. During the coup itself, U.S. clandestine
media could broadcast misinformation to confuse regime loyalists and try to bolster popular
support for the plotters. In addition, U.S. electronic warfare can be used to disrupt the regime’s
communications and thus paralyze its response.

75

124

As with supporting an insurgency, a critical question that Washington would have to decide beforehand is whether the United States would be
willing to provide direct military assistance to the
coup plotters—either to save them from annihilation or to deliver the coup de grace if it seemed
they were doing well but needed something to put
them over the top. Because military forces would
need to be in place beforehand, this could not be
decided on the fly, during the coup. Of course,
readying forces around Iran could tip off the regime, which creates one potential disincentive.
Another is that military support could undermine
the legitimacy of the coup plotters if they appeared
to be foreign puppets rather than homegrown nationalists. Moreover, direct military support could
involve the United States in a war with Iran if the
coup attempt fails, raising all of the liabilities of the
various military options. On the other hand, because Iranian security is so formidable, a coup plot
might need some outside assistance to succeed.

Requirements
The key to this policy option is knowing whom
to support and how. This requires a thorough understanding of Iran’s military and security forces,
not just in terms of their weaponry, organization,
and doctrine, but the much more subtle areas of
personal and institutional relationships (which
determine who might support a coup by any given officer or group of officers), personal histories
(which can indicate who holds a grievance against
the regime), and standard operating procedures
(deviation from which will tip off the regime).
Ultimately, understanding Iran’s military and security forces in this way is vital for two distinct
reasons. First, members of the military are best
positioned to carry out a coup and topple the
regime. Second, other forms of resistance are

See, among others, Kermit Roosevelt, Countercoup: The Struggle for the Control of Iran (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1979); Stephen Kinzer, All
the Shah’s Men. An American Coup and the Roots of Middle East Terror (Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley and Sons, 2003).

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

likely to falter if the military and security forces
firmly back the regime.
Iran’s military, however, has been effectively “coup
proofed” by the clerical regime.76 After the revolution, the new leadership saw the military as the
bastion of the Shah’s rule. Several aborted coups
in the early years of the revolution also increased
suspicion of the military as an institution. In response, the regime shot or dismissed many officers, while others fled into exile. After this purge,
the regime exercised tremendous control over the
leaders of the regular armed forces, vetting them
carefully for loyalty and monitoring their activities. In addition, the regime created a parallel military—the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps
­(IRGC)—with a dual mission of fighting internal
as well as external foes of the revolution. Today,
key facilities and areas are guarded by IRGC forces, not by the regular military. IRGC members, in
particular, are a crucial component of the younger
conservatives who form the bastion of the current
order. Given this recent history and the competition from the IRGC, the regular military is, if
anything, even more a pillar of the regime. As dissent appeared to increase in the 1990s with several demonstrations, security forces wavered when
confronting unrest. Since then, the clerical leadership reorganized the military and law enforcement services to ensure their loyalty in the event
of popular unrest. Special units have been created
with leaders carefully vetted for their loyalty.
What all of this means is that the critical requirement of this option is superb intelligence on the
Iranian armed forces.

Excellent Intelligence
As explained in Chapter 6 with regard to fomenting a popular revolution, successful meddling in

76

the internal affairs of another country requires
excellent intelligence if the efforts are to succeed. Indeed, a lack of intelligence can even lead
a covert action program to backfire, as the regime
manipulates it to its advantage. For a coup, the
United States would need a sense of the loyalties
of different unit commanders, knowledge of the
key points of communication that must be seized
or neutralized, and an understanding of regime
counterintelligence measures, among other factors. Without this information, the United States
may back the wrong people or be beguiled by figures who are secretly controlled by Iranian intelligence.
Iran also has multiple centers of power, which
would make a coup far harder to pull off than in
1953. In addition to parallel militaries, Iran’s economic and political institutions overlap in their
areas of responsibility. This multiplicity makes
it difficult to strike a quick and decisive blow to
seize power. Knowing which centers are the most
important would greatly aid this effort.
As explained earlier, it appears that the necessary level of detailed intelligence on Iran is simply not there. Because the United States has no
embassy and has few Iran experts within government ranks, information on the country’s incredibly complex politics is often inadequate or
inaccurate. Much of the information the United
States requires involves an understanding of Iran’s
remote areas (for example, Baluchistan) or is difficult to obtain comprehensively, such as the loyalty of various unit commanders. Consequently,
any plan to aid a coup would first require a major
effort to build up American intelligence on Iran,
which would itself be time consuming and difficult given the inherent nature of Iranian society
and the paranoia of the regime.

 e term “coup proofing” was invented by James Quinlivan. See James Quinlivan, “Coup Proofing: Its Practice and Consequences in the
Th
Middle East,” International Security 24, no. 2 (Fall 1999): pp. 131-165.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

125

Pros and Cons
The following are the advantages and disadvantages of supporting a military coup.

Advantages:
 Because the Iranian military has power of
its own, a coup d’état would conceivably
require the least support from the United
States. Washington could mostly leave it to
the Iranian cabal to summon the power to
topple the regime, and in theory, it should
be capable of doing so. Based on the history
of other coups, both in Iran and elsewhere,
the United States might only have to provide some money, communications assistance, and some specialized gear.

 There is little evidence to suggest widespread disaffection against the regime
among the security services, or that there
are numbers of officers willing to move
against it. If anything, based on the very
limited information that the outside world
has about the Iranian military, it appears
that the Iranian Armed Forces and the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps compete
for the regime’s favor.

 Even a failed coup plot might make the
regime fearful—and in so doing, make it
more willing to cooperate—or simply cause
it to focus internally, lessening its mischief
making abroad.

 A military coup backed by the United
States could play very badly among the
Iranian people at large. It might appear
to be “1953 redux” and trigger a backlash
against both the new government and the
United States.

 In theory, if the coup plotters succeeded, they
would feel grateful to the United States, and
so there would be some reasonable expectation of a better relationship between a new
government in Tehran and Washington.

Disadvantages:
 Because of Iranian security measures,
there is a high likelihood that the regime
would uncover the coup plot and kill all of
the participants to discourage anyone else
contemplating such a step. This would end
up strengthening the regime—the opposite of what the United States had hoped to
achieve.
 Attempting to foment a coup would require a much more intimate understanding

126

of the Iranian officer corps than the United
States currently possesses, and it would be
difficult to improve this quickly given Iranian security measures. Indeed, if ordered
to implement this option today, it is not
clear that the U.S. intelligence community
would even know where to start.

 Moreover, it seems unlikely that a military
coup would bring a democratic government to power. The United States might be
replacing an unfriendly autocracy with a
friendly one, but this would hardly endear
it to the region or the rest of the world, and
one lesson that the United States has learned
from the Iranian revolution (among other
events) is that supporting autocrats tends
to undermine American interests over the
long term.
 If the Iranians become aware of American
efforts to instigate a coup plot, they would
likely retaliate against the United States,
potentially in all the ways and against all of
the locations discussed in association with
previous options.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

Part IV

DETERRING TEHRAN
Containment

I

t seems fitting that discussion of the Containment option would come last in this survey of
U.S. policy options toward Iran, because Containment is always America’s last policy choice.
When a state proves too hostile for Engagement
or a diplomatic compromise, when it is too strong
to be invaded or otherwise attacked, and when it
is too repressive to be overthrown, only then does
the United States opt to contain it as best it can.
To a great extent, Containment has been the default U.S. policy toward Iran since the Islamic Revolution because Washington failed with the other
options—at least to the extent it tried them. Carter,
Reagan, Bush 41, and Clinton all attempted to engage Iran and failed. Carter, Bush 41, Clinton, and
Bush 43 held out the prospect of a diplomatic compromise of one sort or another without any luck
either. Clinton and Bush 43 also tried to aid Iranian oppositionists in the hope of bringing reform
to Tehran. No American administration has ever
employed military force against Iran as a deliberate policy, although the Reagan Administration deployed the U.S. Navy to the Persian Gulf in 19871988, at the height of the Iran-Iraq War, to escort
Kuwaiti oil tankers. This resulted in several skirmishes between U.S. and Iranian forces, but in the
final analysis, these were all provoked by Tehran.
Amid all of these different efforts to engage, negotiate with, and even redirect the Iranian regime,

the constant in U.S. policy toward Iran over the
past 30 years has been Containment. Throughout this period, none of the other policy options
gained any purchase with the Iranian regime,
although, in truth, they were often applied in a
ham-fisted or half-hearted manner. As such, the
United States and its allies did as much as they
could to limit Iran’s ability to support violent extremist groups, subvert friendly governments, develop weapons of mass destruction (WMDs), and
otherwise undermine the Middle Eastern status
quo. The long list of unilateral sanctions applied
by the United States against Iran from 1979 onwards was a critical element of that policy (although it was also meant to try to change Tehran’s
behavior). So, too, were U.S. efforts to discourage
arms sales, trade, and investment with Iran by
other countries. Except for those moments when
Washington was attempting to engage the Iranian
regime, the United States typically was trying to
isolate it—diplomatically, economically, militarily, and in every other way conceivable.
The success of Containment during this period
was uneven. Iran today seems a more powerful
and disruptive force in the international relations of the Middle East than it has been since the
early days of the revolution. Given that Containment sought to achieve the opposite, these results
alone suggest that Containment failed. But as always with Iran, there is more to it than that. First,

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

129

Iran’s apparent strength across the region is more
a product of American mistakes than its own actual puissance or cleverness. The United States
eliminated Iran’s two most threatening neighbors—Saddam Husayn in Iraq and the Taliban
in Afghanistan—and left power vacuums that
allowed the Iranians to assert considerable influence where they previously had little. Similarly,
American missteps in Lebanon, Syria, and elsewhere, as well as in dealing with the Palestinians,
have diminished the power and freedom of action
of the United States (and its allies) and handed
Iran apparent victories at little cost.
Second, Iran’s “strength” is mostly a façade. Iran’s
armed forces remain relatively weak, with little
ability to project power beyond Iran’s borders
or thwart an Israeli or American military operation. Because of this, Iran is fortunate that it simply does not face any real conventional military
threats other than those from the United States
and Israel.
But its luck does not extend much further. Politically, the Islamic regime seems less and less popular, and increasing numbers of internal fissures
appear each year. Additionally, its economy is
a disaster. With inflation and unemployment
soaring, non-oil imports and currency reserves
evaporating, worker productivity and oil exports declining, and a government unwilling to
take the drastic steps necessary to get out of its
current predicament, Iran’s future seems dark.
Since economics underpins all other aspects of
national power over the long term, this does not
bode well for Iran’s role in the region either. The
Iranian regime could survive for decades more,

77

130

but its eventual demise seems increasingly likely,
and in the near term, political fractiousness contributes to its difficulty in taking decisive action
abroad.
Although Iran’s own failings and mistakes have
been the most important reason for its internal
decline, Containment also played a role. It is difficult to ascertain exactly how much the sanctions
were responsible for Iran’s economic decay, but
they played a part, and many Iranians believe that
they continue to play a major role.77 The sanctions limited Iran’s ability to build up its military
strength, to become a major economic player, or
employ its vast oil and natural gas reserves in the
diplomatic realm, and to garner allies willing and
able to help it achieve its goals. In short, Containment may not have achieved its maximal objectives, but it seems to have achieved more than its
minimal goals.
For all of these reasons, a policy of Containment
toward Iran is present in the debate like the proverbial elephant in the living room. Some analysts
and experts have suggested that the United States
should simply adopt a strengthened form of Containment as its policy toward Iran. Many others
leave it as the unspoken but well understood fallback option—that if their preferred policy fails
or is not adopted, the United States would be left
with no choice but to fall back on Containment.
Although we do see Containment as a viable fallback position for the United States, this section
examines it by asking the question, “If the United
States were to decide to eschew all of the alternatives and pursue a deliberate policy of Containment toward Iran, what would that entail?”

See for example, Laura Secor, “Letter from Tehran: The Rationalist,” New Yorker, February 9, 2009, esp. pp. 36-38.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

Chapter 9

ACCEPTING THE UNACCEPTABLE
Containment

A

s in the past, Containment may become
the U.S. policy of last resort toward Iran.
If Washington is once again unable to persuade
Tehran to give up its nuclear program and its other problematic behaviors, if it is unable or unwilling to try to overthrow the regime, if it chooses
not to invade or if it chooses not to use airstrikes
or to encourage the Israelis to do so, then it may
find itself dusting off and applying a policy of
Containment toward Iran.78 Indeed, there seems
to be an implicit assumption in many of the arguments made by Americans about Iran policy that
if one of the diplomatic or regime change options
cannot be made to work soon, then Washington
will have no choice but to adopt either Containment or one of the military options.

of the various military options have already been
discussed in Chapters 3 through 5, and they are
certainly significant. In the case of Containment,
the reason that this option is considered so unpalatable is that it would mean accepting an Iranian
nuclear weapons capability and possibly an Iranian nuclear arsenal. Containment makes no effort to prevent Iran from acquiring the capability
but instead simply attempts to prevent Iran from
causing trouble beyond its borders—both directly
and indirectly—by trying to keep Iran weak and,
well, contained. Consequently, a critical element
in concluding whether to pursue Containment is
determining the level of risk that the United States
and its allies would face from an Iran armed with
nuclear weapons.

The Threat of a Nuclear Iran

Unfortunately, this is an unknowable judgment
call. There is no formula, no foolproof information that could provide an objective, definitive answer. Therefore, policymakers will have to make
their own judgment about the extent of the threat.

Of course, what is implicit in the admission that
the United States may have to resort to Containment or one of the military options if all else fails
is that these two approaches are disastrously (and
perhaps equally) bad alternatives. The drawbacks

78

In pondering this issue, policymakers should
consider at least six potential threats to the United

As the conclusion discusses, an air campaign against Iran’s nuclear sites would likely have to be coupled with a containment strategy—before,
during, and especially after the strikes. Containment would be necessary to hinder Iran from reconstituting its nuclear program, prevent it
from retaliating against the United States and its allies, and to deal with Iran’s support for violent extremist groups and other anti-status quo
activities. Moreover, the United States would have to do so in a situation where many of the other options (particularly the diplomatic ones)
will likely be impossible because of the political fallout from the strikes.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

131

States that stem from Iran’s possession of nuclear
weapons:
1. W
 ould the Iranians use them? The first
and most obvious threat is the possibility
that if Iran acquires nuclear weapons, it
would use them. In military parades, Iran
has draped Shahab-3 missiles with banners
reading “Israel must be wiped off the pages
of history”; the headquarters of Iran’s Basij
mobilization forces have a huge banner (in
both English and Farsi) over the entrance
quoting President Ahmadinejad’s infamous remark that “Israel should be wiped
out of the face of the world”; and Ahmadinejad and other Iranian leaders have
said any number of things indicating that
they would like to see the end of the Jewish state.79 The Saudi oil fields, American
bases in the Persian Gulf region, and a variety of other high-value targets are also all
within range of Iranian ballistic missiles
and hence vulnerable to attack if Iran were
willing to employ nuclear weapons.
2. Would they give nuclear weapons to terrorists? Iran has a long history of supporting violent extremist groups that employ
terrorism—Hizballah in Lebanon (and
elsewhere around the world), Hamas
and Palestinian Islamic Jihad in Palestine, Jaysh al-Mahdi and even al-Qa’ida
in Iraq, the Taliban in Afghanistan, the
PKK (Kurdistan Workers Party) in Turkey,
and numerous others.80 Virtually all of
these groups—not coincidentally—attack
American allies, and a number have killed
Americans with the knowledge, encouragement, and even occasional guidance

of Tehran. Therefore, some Americans
fear that while Tehran itself might not use
nuclear weapons for fear of retaliation, it
would be willing to give them to terrorists in hope of achieving the regime’s aims
while maintaining plausible deniability.
3. Unconstrained asymmetric warfare. A
far more common concern about Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is that once
Tehran has a nuclear weapons capability,
it would become even more aggressive,
believing that it is effectively immune to
any military retaliation by any other state
(including the United States). This was essentially how Pakistan responded once it
detonated nuclear weapons in 1998, leading to the 1999 Kargil crisis in which India
and Pakistan nearly came to blows over
Islamabad’s outrageous terrorist campaign
against India over Kashmir.
4. Israeli preemption. The Israelis share all
of the above fears, although there is a range
of opinion about the threat. Nevertheless,
if Israel believed that the United States and
the rest of the international community
were not going to try to prevent Iran from
acquiring a nuclear capability and were
simply going to accept it and try to contain
a nuclear-armed Iran, Jerusalem might decide that it had to act unilaterally to preclude any of the above risks. Although
Israeli leaders seem to be well aware of the
drawbacks of an Israeli airstrike against
the Iranian nuclear sites (as described in
Chapter 5), one cannot assume that they
will not calculate that the payoff could be
worth the cost.

J oshua Teitelbaum, “What Iranian Leaders Really Say about Doing Away with Israel: A Refutation of the Campaign to Excuse Ahmadinejad’s
Incitement to Genocide,” Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, 2008, available at <http://www.jcpa.org/text/ahmadinejad2-words.pdf>,
downloaded on February 9, 2009.
80
Daniel Byman, Deadly Connections: States that Sponsor Terrorism (London: Cambridge University Press, 2005), pp. 79-80.
79

132

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

5. Proliferation. Few of Iran’s neighbors
would be happy to see it acquire nuclear
weapons or even the capability to produce
such weapons. Other states might decide
that they need the same to ensure their
ability to deter Tehran on their own, without having to rely on any other country
to do so for them. Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates have already made
ominous noises suggesting that they
would respond in this fashion, and given
their oil wealth, this is a realistic prospect.
Turkey, Egypt, and other countries might
decide to go down the same path. A halfdozen or more nuclear arsenals in the
Middle East have the potential to spark
new crises in the region, and to make all
Middle Eastern crises far more dangerous
than they already are.
6. The death knell of the NPT. Because so
many of its neighbors do see Iran as a
threat, at least some may attempt to acquire nuclear weapons of their own to
balance or deter Iran. This trend will get a
further boost from the fact that Iran’s acquisition of a nuclear weapons capability
will probably be the nails in the coffin of
the global non-proliferation regime and
the Non-Proliferation Treaty. After all, if a
country like Iran—which is widely seen as
a rogue, and whom all of the great powers,
including Russia and China, have explicitly stated cannot be allowed to acquire this
capability—nevertheless does so, and does
so without paying an exorbitant price, other countries will rightly calculate that they
will face even fewer international penalties
for doing the same.
The last four of these potential problems arising
from Iran’s acquisition of a nuclear weapons capability are not merely judgments but potentially
also challenges for U.S. diplomacy and military

policy as part of the Containment option, and so
they are treated later in this chapter. The first two,
however, are simply questions of judgment that
must be addressed before the United States adopts
the Containment policy. If it seems likely (or even
just reasonably probable) that Iran would use
nuclear weapons or give them to terrorist groups
once it gets them, then an option that employs
containment would be a foolish policy. There is
no way that the United States could prevent Tehran from doing either once the Iranians achieved
the capability; the most Washington could do
would be to crush the Iranians for having done so
after the fact. So if Americans believe that there
is a significant risk that Iran would use a nuclear
weapon unprovoked or give one to terrorists, that
judgment needs to be reached before acquiescing to an Iranian nuclear weapons capability. And
it should drive Washington in the direction of
adopting one (or more) of the other options to try
to preclude this eventuality.
Ultimately, a judgment on these issues rests on
the simple question, “Can Iran be deterred?” After all, it is not enough to simply assert that a nation is aggressive, anti-American, and supports
violent extremist groups, even violent extremists who attack the United States. The same could
have been said about the Soviet Union under Stalin and Khrushchev, Castro’s Cuba, and North
Korea throughout its existence, yet the United
States found them deterrable. In turn, this question rests on an assessment of whether the Iranian
regime is so reckless and heedless of the potential
consequences (either because it is indifferent to
such costs or has shown a propensity to miscalculate the likelihood of paying them) that it would
take actions like these that would risk massive retaliation from the United States, Israel, or another
nuclear-armed country.
Unfortunately, it is hard to arrive at such an assessment objectively or definitively. On the one hand,
Iranian leaders have consistently shown prudence

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

133

and a relatively low threshold for suicidal risk. In
1988, Ayatollah Khomeini agreed to end the IranIraq War long before any Iranian population centers were threatened with conquest by Iraqi (or
American) forces. In 1996-1997, when Iranian
support for terrorist groups and terrorist actions
in Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, and Germany
had created the risk of conventional attack by the
United States and/or multilateral sanctions, Iran
reined in its asymmetric warfare operations. Similarly, in Iraq in 2007-2008, when Iranian-backed
Shi’i militias began to lose heavily, the Iranians
refrained from escalating their support, probably in part out of concern that doing so would
provoke direct American military action against
them. Likewise, although Iran has had WMDs
(chemical warfare agents and probably biological
warfare agents as well) since 1988 and has supported various terrorist groups since 1979, it has
never sought to mix the two—almost certainly
because Tehran believes that in the event of a
terrorist attack with WMDs, the targeted nation
(and/or its allies) would dispense with the niceties of “plausible deniability” and strike with overwhelming force against whomever provided these
weapons.81
Nevertheless, there is other evidence to the contrary. Ahmadinejad’s outrageous threats tend to
belie any sense of prudence in Tehran, although
it is worth noting that he is not Iran’s ultimate
decisionmaker on national security issues and
that Ayatollah Khamene’i, who is the decisionmaker, has made speeches specifically meant to
undercut Ahmadinejad’s more bellicose rhetoric.
Still, other Iranian leaders have made statements
that are almost as outrageous as Ahmadinejad’s. For instance, in 2002, former president Ali

Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani explained that, “Israel is much smaller than Iran in land mass, and
therefore far more vulnerable to nuclear attack.”
He went on to point out that a nuclear attack on
Israel would obliterate the state, but the Israeli retaliation would only cause “damage” to the much
larger Muslim world.82 Iran’s support for terrorist
attacks on U.S. assets—such as the Marine barracks blast in Beirut in 1983, Khobar Towers in
1996, and the many explosively formed projectiles dispatched to Iraqi militias and the Taliban
in Afghanistan since 2005—all certainly count as
aggressive, lethal attacks on Americans that ran
some risk of U.S. retaliation.83
Thus, even if the evidence tends to suggest that
Iran is prudent and averse to suffering catastrophic damage (and therefore deterrable), it is
impossible to be certain. But there was no guarantee that deterrence would work with the Soviet
Union either; that, too, was a risk that the United
States chose to run because the cost of the alternatives (particularly a military “rollback” of the
Soviet Union) were so horrific that the risk of
deterrence failing still seemed like the safer bet
by comparison. Containment of Iran only makes
sense if the leadership of the United States reaches the same conclusion about the risks and costs
when it comes to Iran.

Goal
The goal of a Containment strategy toward Iran
is to prevent Tehran from harming American interests in the Middle East and Central Asia, preferably while minimizing the costs to the United
States. It is intended to prevent Iran from supporting violent extremist groups, subverting

For more on all of these points and a more detailed explication on the notion that the Iranian regime is probably deterrable, see Kenneth M.
Pollack, The Persian Puzzle: The Conflict between Iran and America (New York: Random House, 2004), esp. pp. 275-425.
82
Jerusalem Report, March 11, 2002.
83
An explosively formed projectile is a particularly deadly type of improvised explosive design that can penetrate armored vehicles. Many
such weapons were provided to various Iraqi militias and insurgents beginning in about 2005, and to the Taliban and other Pashtun groups
in Afghanistan beginning in 2008. The United States military has gathered extensive evidence demonstrating that these devices were
manufactured in Iran and provided by the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps to the Iraqis and Afghans.
81

134

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

friendly governments, or otherwise destabilizing
the region. Militarily, it would aim to deter any
overt Iranian aggression or use of WMDs. Diplomatically, it would seek to prevent Iran from developing allies or proxies abroad. Economically, it
would attempt to keep Iran as weak as possible to
ease the military and diplomatic burdens.

of other antipathetic regimes such as Cuba and
North Korea. As with Containment of the Soviet Union, a policy of Containment toward Iran
would attempt to keep it as weak as possible and
prevent it from making gains abroad, in the expectation that the regime’s dysfunctions would
ultimately bring about its demise.

Ultimately, this goal puts Containment in a very
different category from all of the other policy
options. It does not seek to change the Iranian
regime’s policies, except that by preventing Iran
from doing much damage, Containment may
eventually convince Tehran to give up the fight.
It does not seek to eliminate the Iranian nuclear
program and assumes that Iran’s possession of a
nuclear weapons capability is inevitable. It does
not seek to overthrow the Iranian regime, except
that by preventing Tehran from achieving its more
grandiose ambitions and by maintaining punishing sanctions, Containment may foment popular
resentment and hasten the end of the regime.

However, because the nature of Iranian power,
influence, and aggression differs fundamentally
from that of the former Soviet Union, so, too,
would the nature of its containment. With the Soviet Union, “containment” was a literal description of Washington’s goal in seeking to prevent
Moscow from using its conventional military
might to conquer countries that bordered the
Soviet bloc and integrate them into it. Iran has
little conventional military power and instead has
tried to rely on subversion, support to insurgencies and terrorists, and the abetting of revolutions
and coups in nearby countries, hoping to bring
to power governments friendly to Tehran. Consequently, in the case of Iran, “containment” would
be more figurative than literal. It would attempt
to prevent Iran from doing what it would like
(rather than attempting to change either the Iranian regime or its behavior) and ensure that Iran
would not make gains anywhere it sought to.

Time Frame
Containment has the easiest time frame of all.
The United States could adopt it immediately,
and in theory, it could last for the life of the regime—as long as it does not fail catastrophically,
with Iran lashing out in some way that proved extremely harmful to American interests and thus
necessitating the adoption of another, probably
far more aggressive option against Tehran, such
as airstrikes or an invasion.

Overview of the Policy
In some ways, Containment may also be the
easiest policy option toward Iran to conceptualize, both because it is effectively what the United
States has pursued for most of the past 30 years
and because it would be roughly congruent with
how the United States contained the Soviet Union
during the Cold War, and has contained a host

A Containment policy toward Iran would consist
of five broad categories of activity against the Islamic Republic, intended to keep it weak and prevent it from creating problems elsewhere in the
Middle East and Central Asia:
 Military. Because of the nature of Iranian
power, the military dimension of Containment is important but not as critical as it
was in containing the Soviet Union, whose
principal means of international influence
was its conventional military might. The
United States would have to ensure that
Iran was not able to use its armed forces
to intimidate or conquer other countries,

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

135

something that would not be difficult given
the small size of the Iranian military. The
U.S. armed forces may also need to be in
a position to retaliate against the Iranians
should they take actions that crossed an
American “red line.”
 Strategic. The policy option of Containment
makes no effort to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons, and so it implicitly assumes that Iran may well acquire at least a
weapons capability at some point in time.
Once this becomes the case, the United
States would have to deter Iran from using
the weapons or from taking aggressive actions that would threaten U.S. vital interests.
 Economic. The United States would seek
to keep Iran economically weak to prevent
it from generating the military capacity or
buying the diplomatic support to undermine the Containment regime.
 Diplomatic. The United States would have
to maintain a confederation of countries,
starting with Iran’s neighbors and the other
great powers, to help Washington contain
Iran. This could entail contributing military forces to prevent Iranian moves, but it
would more likely focus on keeping pressure on the Iranian economy, combating
Iranian subversion and support for violent
extremists, and otherwise blocking Tehran’s own moves.
 Counterterrorism. Since Containment
makes no provision to eliminate the Iranian
regime—or even much of an effort to keep
the regime preoccupied with its domestic
problems—the United States would have
to expect Iran to ratchet up its support for
violent extremist groups to try break out of
the Containment “box,” possibly by overthrowing one or more of the governments

136

cooperating with the United States against
it. To deal with that, the United States
would need to organize a coordinated
counterterrorism and counterintelligence
effort to prevent Iranian agents from doing
much damage.

Requirements
If the course of action envisioned by a policy of
Containment is relatively straightforward, the requirements of that policy are quite the opposite.
When it comes to Containment, it is the requirements that are daunting. They span the range of
foreign policy endeavors, entail complex interactions, and require considerable international support.

Sanctions
As already described, a key feature of Containment would be strong sanctions against Iran to
keep it weak and to hinder its ability to take actions harmful to American interests. This is not
quite a requirement because it is possible to imagine containing Iran without any sanctions whatsoever. During the Cold War, the Soviet bloc was
simply too big and resource rich to be effectively
sanctioned, and yet the United States and its allies
kept it more or less contained for 45 years. Still, the
Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export
Controls (the Western sanctions regime against
the Soviet bloc) was helpful in denying the Soviets and their allies technology and hard currency,
which left them weaker and hence easier to block.
Similarly, there is no question that crippling sanctions against Iran would be extremely useful and
would greatly ease the burden of Containment.
Moreover, Iran has nothing like the resources of
the Communist bloc, and given the weakness of
its economy, defense industries, technological
base, and conventional forces, effective sanctions
against Iran could prove devastating, making the
job of containing it infinitely easier.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

Consequently, the most useful sanctions to help
the Containment option would include:
 A ban on military sales to Iran, to keep its
conventional and nuclear forces weak and
small;
 A ban on high-technology sales to Iran,
both to hinder its indigenous military development and cause stagnation in its economic base;
 Restrictions on trade and investment, to
exacerbate the country’s economic problems and thereby stoke domestic dissent
at home—thus making it harder for Iran
to act aggressively abroad—and to further
undermine the economic basis of Iranian
military and diplomatic strength;
 Restrictions on the travel of Iranian personnel abroad, preferably accompanied by
similar constraints on Iranian air lines, to
hinder the ability of Iranian intelligence
personnel to wage asymmetric warfare;
 Restrictions on the transfer of hard currency to Iran, which the regime needs for arms
and technology purchases, intelligence operations, and support of violent extremist
groups; and
 Restrictions on the purchase and sale of Iranian oil and natural gas, not to choke them
off altogether but to impose a surcharge on
them to diminish the amount of revenue
the Iranian state derives from them.
Since the United States already has sanctions
covering every one of these activities, the real
challenge for American diplomacy in pursuit of
a Containment option toward Iran would be to
convince as many other countries as possible—
particularly Iran’s major trading partners in

Europe, Russia, China, East Asia, and India—to
follow suit.

Conventional Military
Requirements
Given the weakness of Iranian conventional forces,
especially compared to the strength of the American military, this should not be an overly onerous
requirement. The United States has typically found
that a relatively small naval presence in the Persian
Gulf—one carrier, a half-dozen surface combatants,
a couple of submarines, and some minesweepers
and other specialized craft—coupled with about a
wing of strike and support aircraft deployed ashore
have been more than adequate to deal with most
potential Iranian scenarios. In times of crisis, and
especially if Iran ever attempted to close the Strait
of Hormuz, more forces would be needed. Depending on the scenario, reinforcements might include
another aircraft carrier or two, and/or another one
to two wings of strike and support aircraft ashore,
along with twice as many subs and surface combatants, and perhaps as many as a dozen minesweepers. Such a force ought to be able to obliterate Iranian air and naval defenses in the Strait of Hormuz,
clear any mines, and even raze Iranian military installations along its littoral (if that were desired) in a
matter of weeks, or even days.
Given the weakness of Iranian ground forces, it
seems unlikely that Tehran would attempt to attack any of its neighbors, especially those most
important to American interests. Turkey is a
member of NATO, and the Iranians have shown
no inclination to provoke the entire Atlantic alliance against them. As long as the United States
has 30,000-60,000 troops in Afghanistan and
maintains some military personnel in Iraq (even
as advisers, trainers, logistical support personnel,
and the like), it is equally hard to imagine Iran
invading either of those countries. If the regime
embarked on a major program to build up its
ground and air forces, the United States might

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

137

want to commensurately support those of Iraq
and Turkey—or might want to look into basing
American ground forces (or merely their equipment) at prepositioned sites near Iran’s borders.
However, Iran would require at least five—perhaps as many as ten—years to acquire the ability to threaten either Turkey or American forces
in the region. Currently, Pakistan is a mess, but
its ground and air forces are probably at least as
capable as those of Iran, and it possesses nuclear
weapons, which are likely to deter any large-scale
Iranian aggression.
At present—and therefore, for the foreseeable future—the only real geographically weak link in
the conventional military containment of Iran
lies to its north. As weak as Iran is, the states of
the Caucasus and Central Asia are weaker still. If
Tehran chose, Iran’s armed forces probably could
do so some real damage there. However, the United States has few vital interests in either region,
and it is not clear whether Iranian aggression
there would benefit Iran or bog it down. Consequently, if the United States felt the need to deter an Iranian attack on these countries, it should
look to reestablish bases such as those in Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, and Uzbekistan that it used
during the invasion of Afghanistan. Again, if the
United States felt it necessary to deter an Iranian
conventional military attack on these countries, it
might be necessary to build up American forces
there—or create an infrastructure to allow the
rapid deployment of U.S. forces—because successful “extended deterrence” is often determined
by the immediate balance of forces more than the
overall correlation of forces.

Strategic Requirements
Because the Containment option assumes that
Iran will eventually acquire a nuclear weapons capability and potentially an actual nuclear arsenal,
the far more challenging military requirement
is dealing with the nuclear threat from Tehran.

138

Historically, different states have responded differently to the acquisition of a nuclear arsenal. Some
became more conservative in their foreign relations, but others became more aggressive. There
was Soviet bullying under Khrushchev, the Chinese picking a fight with Moscow over their common border in the late 1960s, and Pakistan recklessly escalating its terrorism campaign against
India in Kashmir in the late 1990s and early 2000s.
This greater aggressiveness has tended to lead
to crises with other nuclear powers: the various
Berlin crises and the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis
(as well as the 1956 Sinai-Suez crisis) between
the United States and Soviet Union, the 1969 Sino-Soviet border clashes, and the Kargil conflict
between India and Pakistan in 1999. Iranian foreign policy is already fairly aggressive, and so the
United States would have to be prepared that Tehran’s acquisition of some sort of nuclear capability
would likely exacerbate this preexisting condition.
The lessons of the Cold War offer the best methods to deal with the potential for Iranian aggressiveness and the risk that it could spark a nuclear
confrontation. The United States would have to
make very clear to Iran what it regards as its vital
interests. Washington would have to spell out “red
lines” that, if crossed by Iran, would prompt the
United States to respond with force—potentially
including the use of American nuclear weapons.
Where possible and where the interests were most
vital, the United States would likely want American
troops on the ground, either to defend the interest
and so make it unnecessary to escalate to nuclear
use, or simply to force Iranian leaders to calculate
that any attack could involve combat with American troops, which in turn could provoke American escalation. Finally, the Cold War demonstrated
that when two nuclear powers have interests (and
military forces protecting those interests) in close
proximity, it is important to communicate clearly
to avoid mishaps, defuse tense situations, and work
out measures that reduce the likelihood of problems between them more generally.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

Nevertheless, following this course of action
with Tehran could be far more difficult than it
was with Moscow. The Iranian political system
is far more Byzantine, unpredictable, and prone
to misinterpretation of American actions (and
words) than the Soviet system was. This places a
premium on establishing clear, reliable channels
of communication with Tehran. Washington
must be able to tell Tehran what it is doing and
why, and to warn the Iranians, with the absolute
minimum of distortion, when they are threatening an American interest or about to cross a red
line. The Swiss channel that the United States
has used in the past is inadequate for this requirement because (often well-meaning) Swiss
diplomats have at times “interpreted” or “spun”
messages passed through them to fit what they
believed should happen, typically leading to unpleasant outcomes. Iranian diplomats are often
highly professional, intelligent, and competent;
they would be good conduits for explaining actions or sending clear signals to the regime.
However, even they are at times marginalized or
ignored by the senior leadership, making them a
good, but imperfect, channel.

Other Diplomatic Requirements
Beyond the diplomatic requirements for an effective sanctions regime as discussed above, the
Containment option demands at least two other
major diplomatic undertakings. The first is meeting the basing requirements for the forces needed
to deter Iranian conventional aggression and to
serve as trip wires and enforce red lines. This may
be easy if the United States can extend its arrangements with countries like Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, and Oman, which actually see advantages in
hosting American military bases. However, if the
United States sees a need to base forces in Saudi
Arabia, the Caucasus, Central Asia, and/or Pakistan—all of which have political reasons to avoid
having American troops on their soil—the State
Department will have its work cut out for it.

Paradoxically, the fact that the United States
would be making no effort to prevent Iran from
acquiring nuclear weapons might make some of
these states more willing to host American forces
as a reassurance against Iranian aggression. However, other countries may reach the exact opposite conclusion. In particular, these countries may
(correctly) see the greatest threat from Iran as its
support of revolutionaries and insurgents, rather
than the possibility it will wage a conventional attack. For them, the presence of American military
forces may be more of a problem than a reassurance because it would feed domestic grievances
and support oppositionist claims that the national
leadership is a puppet of Washington.
The second diplomatic requirement follows
from the first: the need to dampen nuclear proliferation in the Middle East and Central Asia.
Especially if oil-rich countries like Saudi Arabia
and/or the United Arab Emirates opt simply to
buy nuclear weapons outright (from the Pakistanis, North Koreans, or who knows who else),
the United States could find nuclear arsenals
sprouting suddenly all across the region, creating tremendous instability and the potential for
nuclear crises amid the world’s most important
oil-producing region. Obviously, this would be
disastrous for U.S. interests in the region and
also globally, thanks to the demise of the nonproliferation regime.
Finally, if the United States explicitly adopts the
Containment option, it would be sending the
signal to Israel that no one else is going to try to
prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapons
capability. Although the determination of Israeli
leaders to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear
weapon at any price has been greatly exaggerated—and many actually believe they probably
could deter a nuclear-armed Iran—there is no
guarantee that Israel will simply give up. Jerusalem might decide to try its own military option,
despite the fact that Israeli leaders recognize it

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

139

as an unattractive course of action. If Jerusalem
concludes that it cannot risk its existence on Iranian rationality and prudence, it may strike, and
this could be detrimental to American interests.
In particular, it could destroy international support for sanctions, hosting American military
bases, and other American diplomatic initiatives
in the region.
For all of these reasons, as part of a policy of Containment, the United States would want to consider more explicitly extending its nuclear umbrella
to Saudi Arabia, the other GCC states, Egypt, Israel, and possibly Iraq.85 Egypt, Israel, and Saudi
Arabia are already major non-NATO allies of the
United States, and it is widely expected that the
United States would come to their defense with all
necessary means. However, any ambiguity might
be problematic in the circumstances that would
arise from Iran’s possession of nuclear weapons,
and so it might be necessary to remove it altogether by issuing a blanket declaration that an attack on any of these countries would be regarded
as tantamount to an attack on the territory of the
United States itself. The GCC states should also be
afforded the same status, given their importance
as oil and gas producers and American allies.
Assuming that the United States and Iraq continue to have a close relationship even after the
withdrawal of American combat forces, which
seems likely given Iraqi demands that the Strategic Framework Agreement include an American
guarantee to defend Iraq against foreign threats,
Iraq also would fall into this category, if only so
as to prevent the resurrection of the atomic arms
race between Baghdad and Tehran of the 1970s
and 1980s.
Even this momentous step might not do the trick,
however. During the Cold War, Germans famously (and perhaps appropriately) worried that the
United States would not be willing to risk Boston
84

140

to defend Bonn. But Washington will have little
choice other than to try to make it work as best
as possible.

Counterterrorism Requirements
Even more than conventional military defenses,
the states of the Middle East and Central Asia
would likely look to the United States to help
them defend against Iranian-supported subversion, terrorism, and insurgencies if Washington
opts for Containment. As noted, Iran simply
cannot mount much of a conventional military
threat, but it has proven quite skillful at the full
spectrum of asymmetric warfare. That is where
the other states of the region would face the greatest threat if Iran does become more aggressive
once it acquires a nuclear weapons capability.
Consequently, the United States would have to
make a major effort to improve both the national
defenses of these various countries and regionwide integrated programs.
There is an unpleasant Catch-22 inherent in Containment in this area. Specifically, many national
governments will be frightened by Iran’s ability
and presumed greater willingness to stoke internal unrest abroad. As such, they would likely react by clamping down on internal opposition and
suspending all political, economic, and social reform programs out of fear that Iran would try to
exploit any movements for change. However, in
the face of a more assertive Iran looking to more
aggressively stoke internal unrest, it would be
more important than ever for the governments of
the region to press ahead with gradual but comprehensive and determined reform programs
to eliminate the underlying sources of popular
grievance. The paradox is that the natural inclination of all of these regimes will be to do the exact
opposite, and so render themselves potentially
more vulnerable over the long term.

Turkey presumably would be reassured by its NATO membership and so would not need a similar declaration.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

Political Requirements
Containment is never an easy sell. Those on the
political right will excoriate the policy as strategic suicide because they tend to believe that Iran
cannot be deterred. For them, trying to live with
a nuclear Iran is impossible and therefore unacceptable. Those on the political left will denounce
it with equal vigor as an imperialistic effort to demonize Iran unfairly and to militarize a problem
that could be resolved peacefully, through engagement and unilateral gestures. Democracy and human rights activists on both sides will complain
(possibly accurately) that the policy abdicates any
effort to aid the people of Iran in their struggle
against a deeply oppressive regime. If the policy is
adopted as Washington’s first choice (rather than
a fallback option), even the political center will
likely fight it in the belief that the United States
should have tried one of the other options first.
In short, if the president opts for Containment, he
is going to have his work cut out for him at home,
as well as abroad. Containment is not the kind
of Iran policy that is likely to generate much enthusiasm in any corner of the American political
spectrum. That is another reason why most have
tended to consider it a last-ditch, fallback option
rather than a first choice.

Pros and Cons
The following are the advantages and disadvantages of the Containment approach.

Advantages:
 Given the low odds that any of the other
policy options will succeed, the United
States may well end up with Containment
regardless of what it tries first. Moving immediately to Containment without trying
other options first would save the energy
and resources that would be spent on those

options. In particular, this would mean that
the United States would not have to make
any painful trade-offs between the requirements of its Iran policy and those of other,
equally important policies. For example,
opting for Containment might eliminate
the need to make any concessions to Russia
on everything from missile defense to Bosnia to its treatment of Chechnya, Georgia,
Ukraine, and Belarus. It would certainly allow the president to make other issues his
priorities and remove Iran as a major drain
on American diplomatic capital.
 Containment would imply bearable costs
on an annual basis, although those costs
would certainly add up over time. The
current level of naval and air forces would
need to be maintained in the Persian Gulf
region, likely with some residual ground
presence in Iraq and Afghanistan—all of
which was always envisioned by American
military and political leaders in any case.
There would not need to be any particular
military buildup.
 Containment would probably diminish
Iran’s ability to make mischief in the Middle East and South Asia, possibly to a considerable degree. Over the past 30 years,
neither Iran nor the United States has entirely succeeded in achieving its goals with
regard to the other, but given the relative
power and influence of the two countries
in the Middle East and Central Asia today,
the United States has done relatively much
better. Iran remains weak and poor, and
the few allies it has are also weak. Hardly
any countries appear ready to embrace
Khomeini’s Islamic revolution or look to
Tehran for advice, support, or permission
to act. And internationally, Iran remains a
pariah nation, tolerated because of its oil
and gas exports, but otherwise shunned.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

141

That is not a bad record for Containment,
and it suggests that the United States could
similarly limit Tehran in the future.

Disadvantages:
 Containment assumes that Tehran can be
deterred. While there is evidence to support that contention, it is unproven at best,
and if it is incorrect, the outcome could be
spectacularly horrible. As with Containment of the Soviet Union, it rests on the assumption that the other side would not do
anything manifestly foolish, but that may
not be the case.
 Moreover, in the case of Iran, perverse
internal politics have often caused the Islamic Republic to take foreign policy actions that were manifestly foolish. An obvious example of this was Iran’s holding of
the 52 American hostages for 444 days in
1979-1981. This act gravely harmed Iran
in a variety of ways—damage that was apparent to any number of Iranian political
leaders at the time—but Iran’s internal
politics trumped these strategic considerations and produced behavior that the rest
of the world considered reckless and even
irrational.
 Allowing Iran to develop a nuclear weapons capability could well encourage other
regional states to develop similar capabilities of their own. Such a nuclear arms race
in the Persian Gulf region could be highly
dangerous and destabilizing, and it would

142

increase the likelihood of a nuclear crisis
(or even a nuclear exchange) by accident or
as a result of escalation.
 An American decision to stop trying to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapons capability and simply rely on policies
that use containment and deterrence might
cause Israeli leaders to opt for a strike
against Iranian nuclear sites, in the belief
that they have no alternative. Such a strike
could trigger a wider conflict between Israel and Iran that could draw in the United
States and other countries.
 Allowing Iran to develop a nuclear weapons capability, despite a publicly avowed
consensus among the greater powers that
it cannot be allowed to do so, could be the
last nail in the coffin of the NPT, eliminating the global non-proliferation norm,
with unforeseeable consequences in East
Asia, South America, and other parts of the
world.
 If Iran is seen as no longer on the defensive
and more able to go on the offensive—both
because Washington had ceased its efforts
to coerce Tehran and because Iran someday
acquires a nuclear weapons capability—the
Arab states will likely become more fearful of Iran. This may lead them to “bandwagon” with Iran, and almost certainly will
make them less willing to reform, but at a
time when the risk of greater Iranian subversion actually would make it more necessary for them to do so.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

Conclusion

CRAFTING AN INTEGRATED IRAN POLICY
Connecting the Options

N

one of the policy options toward Iran have a
high likelihood of succeeding, even as their
proponents would define success. None is likely
to protect all of America’s national interests at low
cost and with minimal risks. As should be apparent by this point, all of them are less than ideal
solutions to the problems Iran poses. Indeed, one
of the reasons that the Iran debate is so contentious and intractable is that there is no obviously
right course of action. Instead, policymakers
must choose the least bad from among a range of
unpalatable alternatives.
What should also be clear is that few, if any, of the
options presented in this book constitute an unequivocal, stand-alone policy. At the very least,
each will require contingency plans and fallback
positions in the event that circumstances change or
the approach fails. Even a policy comprised of pure
engagement would have to acknowledge that Iran
might take action (like mounting a major terrorist attack or testing a nuclear weapon) that could
force the United States to abandon this course.
Similarly, even if the United States were to commit
itself to mounting a full-scale invasion, the need to
garner domestic political support (and the hope of
securing some international support) would likely
require making a diplomatic overture to Iran first.
Other options might be pursued simultaneously
with one another—indeed, the Persuasion option

includes a tactical version of the Engagement option (which might turn into a strategic version
under the right circumstances, thus making Engagement a potential follow-on to Persuasion).
Persuasion also allows for the possibility of employing some form of the regime change options
as additional sources of pressure on Iran if sanctions alone are considered inadequate. Alternatively, an administration determined to mount a
full-court press against Iran short of an invasion
might employ all of the regime change options
plus the Airstrikes option. In other words, there is
potentially a great deal of interplay among the options. If Washington policymakers chose to pursue
several options simultaneously, or to combine elements of different options, it would have to spend
a great deal of time thinking through not only how
to make each individual option work, but how to
make them work in tandem so that they reinforce
one another rather than running at cross-purposes.
Indeed, because the problem of Iran is such a difficult one, any realistic policy toward Iran likely
would combine at least two or more options, either in sequence, as contingency plans, or as parallel tracks. A single option approach to the problem of Iran would have much less likelihood of
achieving U.S. interests. Consequently, another
critical element in forging an effective policy toward Iran is to understand how various policy options can or cannot be integrated.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

145

The Obama Administration has already recognized that reality. Although the president himself
and many of his top aides, including Secretary of
State Clinton and Dennis Ross, her Iran adviser,
have all indicated that the core of their policy will
be the kind of complex positive and negative incentives embodied by the Persuasion option, they have
also made clear that the full policy will incorporate
other options in various ways.85 President Obama
has stressed that he hopes for a fully cooperative
relationship with Iran. In this he is clearly conveying that he would like to see the tactical engagement envisioned in the Persuasion strategy open
up into full strategic engagement as envisioned in
the Engagement option, if the Iranians indicate
that they are willing and able. In some ways, the
administration’s offer of a hand of friendship to the
Iranians suggests that Washington would be willing to start with the Engagement approach, and
will only convert that into the Persuasion approach
if the Iranians refuse the offer. Nevertheless, President Obama has steadfastly refused to rule out the
military option, which also means that he and his
advisers recognize that under certain circumstances, the United States will at least have to consider
Airstrikes or even the full-scale Invasion option
if the Iranians prove unwilling to compromise.86
Thus the integrated policy of the Obama Administration has a core option but also includes a halfdozen others as contingency or follow-on plans.

The Dos and Don’ts of
Integration
This recognition by the Obama Administration is
important because Persuasion is the option most

easily integrated with other options. To some extent, every other option can become a fallback option for or a compliment to the incentives-based
approach of Persuasion. This gives the option a
great deal of flexibility and “interoperability” in
the sense that it can be married up with many
other approaches. It is almost certainly a key reason that the administration opted to make it the
centerpiece of its initial Iran policy.
As we have noted several times, inherent in the
Persuasion strategy is a form of tactical engagement with Iran meant to facilitate reaching a
“deal” in which Washington would give Tehran
what it wants on economic, security, and political
matters in return for Tehran giving Washington
what it needs regarding Iran’s nuclear program,
support for violent extremist groups, and efforts
to destabilize the Middle East. If the Iranians accept that deal (recognizing that it may be an incremental process of piecemeal negotiations rather than a single “grand bargain”), then Persuasion
intrinsically envisions a shift to strategic Engagement to fulfill the terms of that deal over the long
term.
If the Iranians refuse the deal, Persuasion envisions imposing ever more painful economic sanctions on Iran with the aim of bringing Tehran to
accept the deal. It is also at least plausible in theory to try to employ any of the various methods of
regime change in conjunction with the sanctions.
This was essentially the approach of the Bush 43
Administration, which attempted to amplify the
pressure on Iran from sanctions by also supporting both democracy movements and reportedly

In her April 22, 2009 appearance before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Secretary Clinton said, “We actually believe that by
following the diplomatic path we are on, we gain credibility and influence with a number of nations who would have to participate in order
to make the sanctions regime as tight and crippling as we would want it to be. So I think the short answer is, it is our expectation that we will
be able to put together such a comprehensive sanctions regime in the event we need it.” Hearing of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs,
New Beginnings: Foreign Policy Priorities In The Obama Administration, 111th Cong,. 1st Sess., April 22, 2009.
86
Following his April 21, 2009 meeting with King Abdullah II of Jordan, President Obama spoke about his administration’s policy toward Iran,
saying that “tough, direct diplomacy has to be pursued without taking a whole host of other options off the table.” The White House,
“Remarks by President Obama and King Abdullah of Jordan in Joint Press Availability,” April 21, 2009, available at <http://www.whitehouse.
gov/the_press_office/Remarks-by-President-Obama-and-King-Abdullah-of-Jordan-in-joint-press-availability/>.
85

146

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

ethnic insurgencies in Iran.87 Of course, this strategy had not worked before Bush left office, but its
proponents could plausibly argue that it did not
have enough time to have any impact. It is certainly imaginable that putting the Bush strategy back
in place and adding one or more of the regime
change options could put much greater pressure
on Tehran, and that might increase the likelihood
that the regime would agree to compromise.
However, many experts on Iran argue the exact
opposite: that the sine qua non of striking a deal
with Tehran is convincing the clerical regime that
the United States is not seeking its overthrow, and
only under those circumstances will Tehran feel
secure enough to make compromises. They contend that if Iran feels threatened by the United
States, it will be far more inclined to dig in its
heels and fight back, thereby undermining the
basic premise of Persuasion. There is some evidence to support this contention. For instance, in
1994-1996, when Tehran believed that Washington was ratcheting up its covert action program
against the Islamic regime, the Iranians did not
signal any greater willingness to compromise but
instead lashed out at the United States in whatever
manner they could. Tehran was probably behind
the Khobar Towers attack that killed 19 American military personnel and conducted aggressive
surveillance of American diplomatic and military
personnel and installations all across the Middle
East, instigated attacks by the Palestinian Islamic
Jihad and Hizballah against Israel to subvert the
peace process, and attempted to overthrow the
government of Bahrain.
In theory, airstrikes also could be employed to
exert pressure on Tehran if it refuses an initial
deal, although in practice, they could easily prove

87

counterproductive. Airstrikes would likely rally
the Iranian people around the worst elements in
the regime, at least initially. This, in turn, would
make it more likely Iran would retaliate, withdraw
from the NPT, and recommit to acquiring nuclear
weapons, and/or end any ongoing negotiations
with the United States, the United Nations, or
other members of the international community.
Nevertheless, if it becomes clear that Iran is not
negotiating seriously with the United States but is
merely playing for time—or refuses to negotiate
altogether—then all three of the military options
would take on significantly greater relevance as
fallback options for the Persuasion option. If negotiating a deal is simply no longer feasible, the
Obama Administration will be left with an unpalatable choice between taking military action itself, letting Israel do it, or moving to contain Iran
and deter its use of nuclear weapons. If Washington concludes that it does not believe a nuclear
Iran can effectively be deterred, or the administration simply does not want to take that risk, the
United States might opt for the Airstrikes option
or even the Invasion option. The Israelis will have
to make a similar decision, itself contingent upon
what the United States decides. And while an Israeli airstrike has many potential drawbacks for
the United States, in a situation in which Iran has
made it clear that it is unwilling to make any compromises, Washington might simply decide that
it is not worth expending the political capital to
prevent Israel from launching a strike if Jerusalem
opts to do so.
Furthermore, all of these scenarios could also be
raised simply as implicit threats, and those threats
might serve as a useful form of pressure on Iran as
part of the Persuasion approach in ways that their

Seymour M. Hersh, “Preparing the Battlefield,” New Yorker, July 7, 2008; Joby Warrick, “U.S. Is Said to Expand Covert Operations in Iran:
Plan Allows up to $400 Million for Activities Aimed at Destabilizing Government,” Washington Post, June 30, 2008; Robin Wright, “Stuart
Levey’s War,” New York Times Sunday Magazine, October 31, 2008.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

147

implementation might not. In other words, the
United States could let it be known that if Iran is
unwilling to negotiate an end to its problematic behavior, then the United States would have to look
hard at all of the other options, and under those
circumstances, the military options would look far
more attractive than they do at present. The clear
implication would be that if Tehran is unwilling to
compromise, it may find itself in a war it does not
want. Such threats have the merit of being accurate representations of where the U.S. policy debate
will likely move if Iran refuses to compromise, and
the Obama Administration is already signaling as
much, including by the president’s refusal to take
the military options off the table.
Another way that the United States might employ the threat of the military options in support
of Persuasion, would be to use them to try convince Iran not to break off negotiations or clandestinely cross the nuclear threshold in the midst
of them. In this variant, the United States—and
possibly Israel as well—might warn Tehran that if
it moved to build and field a nuclear arsenal behind the cover of negotiations, the United States
would immediately launch preventive airstrikes.
Washington might even hint that an invasion was
not unimaginable either in these circumstances.
In this manner, the threat of the military options
would serve as deterrents intended to keep Iran
at the bargaining table and prevent the failure of
Persuasion despite further Iranian progress in its
nuclear program.
Likewise, all of the regime change approaches also
will become more attractive if the Iranians refuse to make the compromises offered under the
Persuasion approach. Certainly, regime change
would be less likely to provoke a diplomatic backlash from regional and European states against
the United States in the same way that a military
attack on Iran would, making it potentially more
palatable. The regime change options might also
be employed to keep Iran off balance and on the

148

defensive, and could conceivably produce a new
government in Tehran that would at least ameliorate some of the issues between the United States
and Iran. While all of the regime change options
also have considerable problems to overcome,
these loom largest when the diplomatic options
appear viable. If at some point the diplomatic options are clearly no longer feasible, then regime
change will likely seem more compelling.
The last contingency plan for Persuasion (and every other option) is inevitably the Containment
option. As we noted, Containment is the policy
the United States traditionally adopts toward a
problematic state only when all other approaches
have failed (or seem destined to fail). If Iran refuses to compromise and the administration decides not to pursue either regime change or the
military option, Containment would be the logical fallback.
Other aspects of Containment might be helpful
in pursuing the Persuasion option. In particular,
it might also be necessary for the United States
to provide the kind of formal nuclear guarantees
to Israel and America’s Arab allies envisioned as
part of Containment to create the necessary time
and diplomatic “space” for Persuasion to work. In
previous administrations such guarantess were
shunned for fear that it would signal a lack of U.S.
resolve to curb Iran’s nuclear program. However,
as Iran’s stockpile of enriched uranium grows, its
neighbors are naturally becoming more anxious
about its intentions. This anxiety is causing them
to begin looking seriously at their own options:
in Israel’s case, a preventive strike; in the Arabs’
case, the acquisition of their own nuclear weapons. In other words, the possible unintended
consequences of pursuing the Persuasion option
is that it could trigger a regional conflagration
or a regional nuclear arms race. To forestall such
untoward developments, extending deterrence to
America’s regional allies may actually be an essential and urgent complement to the Persuasion

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

option, one that might well be welcomed by
America’s regional allies. In these circumstances,
it is also conceivable (although not likely) that
Saudi Arabia and other GCC states might welcome the kind of American “tripwire” forces suggested under Containment and that would be
an important component of effective deterrence.
The idea would be for the United States to “buy
time” for Persuasion to work by lulling the fears
of our regional allies, all of whom may grow even
more alarmed if they see negotiations moving
slowly while Iran’s nuclear program continues to
move quickly.
Similarly, a regional Containment strategy could
also be introduced to enhance the likelihood
of success for Persuasion. This is because at the
same time as Iran considers how to respond to the
Obama Administration’s diplomatic overtures,
it is continuing its aggressive efforts to subvert
its Arab neighbors and support Hizballah’s and
Hamas’s efforts to block American peacemaking
efforts. This has generated a sense of common
interest between Israel and its Arab neighbors to
counter Iran’s meddling in their neighborhoods.
There are also signs that Iran’s ally Syria is growing increasingly uncomfortable with its position
on the wrong side of the Sunni-Shi’ah divide. And
as the United States begins its withdrawal from
Iraq, Syria and Iran may become rivals for influence in neighboring Baghdad. A Containment
strategy that sought to limit Iran’s influence in the
Middle East heartland by working with Israel and
the Arabs to resolve the Arab-Israeli conflict in
all its dimensions (i.e. seeking Palestinian, Syrian,
and Lebanese peace agreements), and by working
with Iraq’s Arab neighbors to reduce its influence
in Baghdad, could do much to concentrate the
minds of Iranian leaders. If they began to feel that
rather than dominate the region they were at risk
of being left behind as a new more peaceful regional order began to emerge, they might be more
inclined to take U.S. offers at the negotiating table
more seriously.

One of the potential problems with the Persuasion option is that the various clocks are not synchronized. The Iranian clock ticks much more
slowly because Tehran has every interest in playing for time while it completes all the necessary
elements of its nuclear program. The Israeli and
Arab clocks tick much more quickly because they
cannot abide Iran achieving a nuclear threshold
capability and grow ever more anxious as Iran
gets closer to that point. Meanwhile, the American clock for the Persuasion option is ticking at
a pace somewhere between these two poles since
there is a recognition that time is needed to play
out the option but that a dragged out negotiation will become unsustainable. The challenge for
American policymakers will be to synchronize
these clocks by making the Iranians feels a greater
sense of urgency while enabling the Israelis and
Arabs to relax a little more. This is where the elements of the Containment option could become
useful complements to Persuasion.

An Alternative Example:
Regime Change
Although it is impractical to lay out how each option can be interwoven with every other one, it
may be useful for comparative purposes to sketch
out how a different overarching strategy from
that which the Obama Administration has chosen might encompass many different options in a
more integrated policy. Instead of adopting Persuasion, the Obama Administration might have
opted to pursue regime change (it still may if its
initial efforts prove fruitless). Regime change is
another strategy that could involve most of the
other options in various roles.
First, the United States might opt to employ some
version of Persuasion to set up regime change.
Regime change would seem far more palatable
to Americans, Middle Easterners, Europeans,
and Asians—and probably even to the Iranian
people—if they believe that Iran had been offered

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

149

a very good deal and turned it down. Indeed, if
this is the perception among Iranians, more of
them might be willing to oppose the regime. Thus,
starting with some effort at Persuasion would be
a good way to begin, but if regime change were
really Washington’s goal, the United States would
have to ensure that the Iranians turned down
the offered deal, while making sure that the deal
looked attractive to others. If the Iran experts are
right that Tehran is unlikely to compromise no
matter what it is offered as long as it feels threatened, then a clever approach to regime change
might be to simultaneously offer a good deal (albeit not one so good that Tehran might overcome
its paranoia) while ratcheting up a range of regime
change programs that the leadership would perceive as a threat. Arguably, this is what the Bush 43
Administration did—although that was certainly
not the intention of most members of the administration charged with handling Iran. (Then again,
it may have been the intention of others working
elsewhere within the administration.)88
As far as the regime change options themselves, an
American administration might choose to pursue
all three of the specific routes—popular revolution, insurgency, and coup—on the grounds that
doing so would increase the likelihood that one of
them will succeed. Moreover, employing all three
simultaneously might create helpful synergies
among them. For instance, if the regime becomes
bogged down fighting various insurgencies, Iranian military officers might become convinced that
the leadership must be replaced and that there is
an opportunity to do so. This is effectively what
happened in Iraq in 1963 and 1968 when Baghdad

88

150

was mired in an unsuccessful counterinsurgency
struggle against the Kurds. In addition, applying
such across-the-board pressure against Tehran
would strain the regime’s intelligence and security capabilities as well as its decision-making
processes, and so might cause the regime to make
a mistake that would allow one or another of the
approaches to succeed.
A policy determined to overthrow the government of Iran might very well include plans for a
full-scale invasion as a contingency for extreme
circumstances. Certainly, if various forms of covert and overt support simply failed to produce
the desired effect, a president determined to produce regime change in Iran might consider an
invasion as the only other way to achieve that
end. Moreover, the United States would have to
expect Iran to fight back against American regime
change operations, as it has in the past. Although
the Iranians typically have been careful to avoid
crossing American red lines, they certainly could
miscalculate, and it is entirely possible that their
retaliation for U.S. regime change activities would
appear to Americans as having crossed just such
a threshold. For example, if Iran retaliated with a
major terrorist attack that killed large numbers of
people or a terrorist attack involving WMDs—especially on U.S. soil—Washington might decide
that an invasion was the only way to deal with
such a dangerous Iranian regime. Indeed, for this
same reason, efforts to promote regime change in
Iran might be intended by the U.S. government as
deliberate provocations to try to goad the Iranians
into an excessive response that might then justify
an American invasion.

 is kind of “poison pill” stratagem is exactly what some Iranians fear the Obama Administration is doing, and what other Iranians claim as
Th
a way of justifying rejection of Washington’s overtures. These Iranians fear that the United States is not genuine in its pursuit of compromise
and cooperation with Tehran, and is simply setting up Iran for much tighter sanctions and/or regime change. Consequently, another hurdle
the Obama Administration will have to clear to make its preferred policy of Persuasion work will be convincing the Iranians that
Washington is sincere and not just looking for an excuse to clobber Tehran, either with much harsher sanctions or regime change. The
Obama Administration will have to convince at least some key Iranian leaders, probably including Khamene’i, that it is willing to take “yes”
for an answer.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

In a similar vein, the United States might need
to employ airstrikes against a variety of targets in
response to Iranian retaliation for regime change
programs. In this way, American airstrikes might
be a branch of a regime change policy, but it could
also be a contingency because it would be difficult
to effect regime change in Iran in time to prevent
Tehran from acquiring the capability to build one
or more nuclear weapons. Consequently, Washington might want to have the option to mount
airstrikes against the Iranian nuclear program
simply to push that date down the road and thus
buy time for regime change to have its desired effect. Finally, as we noted in Part III, all of the regime change options require the United States to
consider whether to provide military support (at
least in the form of airstrikes) to whichever Iranian oppositionists Washington chooses to encourage. Popular revolutions can only succeed if the
government has lost the will or ability to employ
its armed forces against the people; insurgencies
may need direct military intervention either to
stave off a catastrophic defeat, like at the Bay of
Pigs, or to bring about final victory, as in Afghanistan in 2001; and coup plotters often need specific units or facilities neutralized to allow them
to spring their coup.
Moreover, regime change requires the simultaneous pursuit of Containment.89 If the United States
is trying to overthrow the government of Iran, it
will be critical to prevent Iran from making mischief abroad and from growing stronger economically, militarily, and politically. The United
States will want to deny Tehran the wherewithal
to threaten neighbors that might be providing
sanctuary for insurgents or otherwise helping
the oppositionists. Thus the sanctions, military
deterrence, isolation, and economic warfare envisioned as key components of the Containment

89

option would be invaluable—indeed, indispensible—aids to a regime change policy.

Expecting the Unexpected
As the preceding sections have illustrated, a critical reason that any American strategy toward Iran
must integrate a range of different options is the
potential for events to occur that would make any
of the options infeasible, and so force a change in
approach. It is essential to keep in mind this law
of unintended consequences when devising a new
Iran policy because the inter-related nature of dynamics in the wider Middle East tends to generate
sudden and unpredictable developments. Unlikely
occurrences happen with surprising frequency and
the complexity of any Iran policy is such that it will
depend on a range of developments, all of which
will be susceptible to the vicissitudes of fortune.
Any strategy toward Iran is likely to depend on
a wide range of developments breaking in particular directions for it to work. Moreover, any
strategy toward Iran is likely to require time to
have its desired effect. As noted, in theory, an invasion might be implemented within a matter of
months, but the reality is that the need to build
up domestic political support for such an endeavor—and hopefully blunt antipathy abroad—
likely means that even an invasion would require
months or even years of political and diplomatic
legwork before the ships could sail. Likewise, it
would take time for the United States and its allies
to formulate a new offer to Iran, propose it, and
have Iran accept it. Consequently, recognizing
the importance of the element of time also means
recognizing the potential for other developments
to intervene, and the more time that passes, the
more things will happen that will have an impact
on U.S. policy toward Iran.

In theory, Containment might also benefit from the simultaneous pursuit of regime change. Support to Iranian insurgents, oppositionists,
and even coup plotters could keep the regime off balance and focused on defending its internal position, which might distract its attention
and resources away from offensive operations against the United States and its allies abroad.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

151

There is a very long list of things that might transpire that would have at least a moderate impact
on a new Iran policy. Almost any major development in Iran—for example, the election of a new
president, the death of Khamene’i, or economic
collapse—would likely have major repercussions for U.S. policy. Not every development in
the United States would have the same potential,
but there are certainly many that would. Obviously, financial collapse would head that list, but
there are others imaginable, such as a change in
the makeup of Congress following the 2010 elections. In addition, global events that affected the
political, security, or economic fortunes of Saudi
Arabia, Israel, Pakistan, or Turkey might also fall
into this category. State collapse in Lebanon, Iraq,
Afghanistan, or the Palestinian territories would
likely have an important impact on the U.S.-Iranian relationship, especially if Tehran were seen
as complicit in the fall, or merely moved quickly
with its allies and proxies to try to take advantage of the situation. Similarly, because Europe,
Russia, Japan, China, India, and other countries
beyond the Middle East also have an important
role in some of the options, their decisions could
make some options more attractive and others
less so. The Persuasion option that the Obama
Administration has chosen relies heavily on the
cooperation of all of those countries; thus events
that make them more or less willing to participate
will affect the ability of the administration to succeed—and this, in turn, could influence its decision to stick with that option or switch to something else.
To illustrate how different events could greatly
affect the viability and attractiveness of the various options, imagine that King Abdullah of Saudi
Arabia dies within the next one to two years and
is succeeded by Prince Nayif ibn Abd al-Aziz,

90

152

recently named the second deputy prime minister.90 Although Abdullah is deeply concerned
about Iran and its pursuit of a nuclear capability, he has steadfastly pursued a policy of détente
with Tehran for more than a decade. Nayif, on the
other hand, is widely believed to favor a much
tougher policy toward Iran, and he might come
to Washington and tell the president that Iranian
acquisition of nuclear weapons is simply intolerable for Saudi Arabia. Assume for a minute that
Nayif also pledges to support the United States in
taking a more aggressive approach than the new
Persuasion policy, and asserts that if the United
States is unable to do so, then the Saudis will acquire nuclear weapons of their own. This would
constitute a fairly dramatic divergence from
Abdullah’s policy and would significantly change
many of the pros, cons, and requirements of the
different options. With Saudi Arabia (and the rest
of the GCC) behind the United States, Washington might consider airstrikes, regime change, and
even an invasion as being both more feasible and
less costly than they appear today. Similarly, if the
United States believes that it is highly likely that
Saudi Arabia will acquire nuclear weapons if Iran
crosses the nuclear threshold, both Persuasion
and Engagement may look less appealing.
As another important example, if Iran were to
detonate a nuclear weapon, this would dramatically alter the calculus of any U.S. administration
considering various options toward Iran. Because
of the risk of nuclear retaliation, the desirability
of an invasion—and even of airstrikes—would
become vanishingly small. The United States
has never attacked another nuclear-armed state
and has done everything it could to avoid doing
so. Containment would become more necessary, while Engagement might become far more

At present, Nayif ’s full brother Sultan is first deputy prime minister and crown prince, but he is in extremely poor health and may well die
before the king. Thus it is more likely that Abdullah will be succeeded by Nayif than Sultan, although Nayif is not even assured of becoming
crown prince once Sultan dies.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

palatable and popular as an alternative to conflict.
The need to try to prevent Iran from acquiring a
nuclear capability—a critical criticism of both options—would be gone, and the question would
simply be how best to deal with a nuclear Iran. Regime change and Persuasion both would be much
trickier, but not necessarily impossible. The United States has maintained covert action programs
against other nuclear-armed states. History has
demonstrated that the possession of nuclear weapons does not immunize a country from internal
problems, including internal revolution, with the
Soviet Union and South Africa both being cases
in point. The difficulty is likely to lie in the greater
reticence of Iran’s neighbors to anger a nucleararmed Iran; but this, too, is not insurmountable,
just difficult. As far as Persuasion is concerned,
there is evidence of states with actual nuclear arsenals (not just the theoretical capacity to build
them) giving up their weapons under the right
conditions. The circumstances in which Belarus,
Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and South Africa did so are
all very different from those that would likely obtain if Iran were to acquire a nuclear arsenal, but
they still suggest that it is not impossible that the
Iranians might some day relinquish theirs. Moreover, North Korea’s situation is much more analogous to that of Iran, and while the current deal
has considerable potential pitfalls, and it is not at
all clear that the North Koreans will end up disarmed, it also suggests that it might be possible to
convince Iran to give up its nuclear program even
after it has crossed the nuclear weapon threshold
(although it would obviously be much harder than
convincing them not to do so in the first place).
One last example of the kind of major development that could fundamentally reorder U.S. thinking about the various Iran options would be the
emergence of a charismatic opposition leader in
Iran. The clerical regime has assiduously worked
to prevent this, using utterly ruthless methods,
but the Islamic Republic might slip up and one
might rise to prominence and popularity anyway.

An Iranian Mandela, Havel, Bolivar, or Walesa—
someone who was able to unify the Iranian opposition and generate genuine mass appeal—could
also force a transformation in American thinking.
First, his or her presence would alter the probability of a popular revolution in Iran, making that
regime change option far more feasible than it is
at present. (And we do not rule out the possibility
that American support for a popular revolution
might have enabled the emergence of that leader.)
Second, it would be very unpalatable for the United States to betray someone who has galvanized
the Iranian people and was organizing a genuine
democratic opposition. Not only might this drive
the United States to embrace support for a popular revolution as the primary element in Washington’s Iran policy, it might similarly convince
the U.S. administration to support insurgencies
or airstrikes against Iran as a way of putting pressure on the regime and preventing/dissuading
it from jailing or killing the charismatic leader.
If the regime did so anyway, that might serve as
exactly the kind of outrage that would garner
both domestic American political support and
international diplomatic support for even more
aggressive policies toward Tehran, possibly even
including an invasion. Alternatively, if this leader
were to ask the United States not to stir up ethnic
unrest or launch military strikes against the regime because doing so would undermine his efforts, this would just as decisively eliminate those
options from consideration.
Of course, there are many other possible developments that could have a similar impact on
American thinking. An Israeli airstrike against
Iranian nuclear facilities without U.S. approval, a
major change in the price of oil, a domestic revolt by one or more of Iran’s minorities, the death
of Khamene’i, even the resurgence of the Taliban
in Afghanistan, could all significantly change the
pros and cons, the requirements, and the time
frames of various options, making some more attractive and others less.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

153

Priorities and Trade-Offs
A last but crucial consideration that will bear on
the integration and salience of different options
will be the prominence of Iran policy relative to
all of the other pressing matters facing the government of the United States. Most obviously, the
Obama Administration will have to decide what
priority to place on Iran in the midst of the worst
economic crisis that the United States has faced
in 80 years. Many of the Iran options require
commitments that will compete with the needs
of economic recovery, at least to some extent,
and the administration will have to decide how
to prioritize among them. An invasion would
demand a major commitment of American military forces and sustaining that military commitment, along with major economic and political
assistance, for years. Washington might be loath
to commit these kinds of resources to its Iran
policy rather than reserving them for domestic
economic recovery. Many of the options are also
very involved and demanding and, if they are to
have a reasonable chance of success, would require considerable time and attention from the
president himself—typically the most precious
commodity that any administration must allocate. At a moment when the president and his
most important advisers may need to spend a
considerable amount of time and political capital
on the economy or other domestic and foreign
priorities, it may be difficult to make these available for Iran policy.
Virtually all of the options require some degree
of support from countries in the Middle East at a
time when the United States also wants their help
to push for a comprehensive Arab-Israeli peace
agreement, keep Iraq on the right track, pressure Sudan to end its genocide, bolster Lebanese
democracy, draw Syria into a constructive regional role, and support a host of other undertakings. At the same time, the United States also
wants these countries to continue to reform their

154

dysfunctional economic, political, and social systems to start addressing the sources of the Middle
East’s endemic instability. And Washington will
probably need the help of the region’s oil producers to address the global economic mess. In the
past, the regimes of the region have successfully
forced the United States to choose among such
different interests, and if Washington opts for an
Iran policy that they dislike, the United States will
be forced to do so again. In that case, Washington would have to decide whether their help for
an Iran policy that they dislike is more important
than America’s other regional ambitions.
Persuasion, the policy that the Obama Administration has adopted as the core of its new Iran
strategy, will also require the administration to
secure the consent of Russia, China, Germany,
Japan, and other countries to impose harsh sanctions on Iran—something that few of them favor—if Iran refuses the deal it is offered. All can
probably be convinced to do so, but that would
require the United States to compromise with
them on other issues that will be unpalatable—
like energy policy for China, and missile defense
or U.S. policies toward former Soviet republics for
Russia. Again, the Obama Administration is going to have to decide which deals it is willing to
make to secure international cooperation in implementing harsh sanctions against Iran. And if
these countries are unwilling to participate, then
it may be necessary to go looking for a different
strategy altogether.

Which Path to Persia?
As we warned at the beginning of this study, crafting a new policy toward Iran is a complicated and
uncertain challenge. Iran is an extremely complex
society, with an opaque and Byzantine political
system, and its interactions with the outside world
are similarly convoluted. Policymakers must take
each of these problems into account and must
also allow for American political preferences as

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y t o wa r d I r a n

well as the potential reactions of several dozen
other countries in the Middle East and beyond. It
is no wonder that the United States has not yet figured out the solution to the puzzle that is Iran. It
is also no wonder that so many American leaders
have thrown up their hands in despair and tried
to have as little to do with Iran as possible.
But as we also observed at the outset, ignoring
Iran is no longer a realistic alternative—not that
it ever was. Tehran is acting on a broad range of
issues of great concern to the United States. It
will not stop doing so just because Americans are
baffled by what to do. Nor will other countries refrain from acting even if the United States does.
In this study, we have tried to lay out the many
different courses of action available to the United
States. It is not the purpose of this monograph
to argue for one approach over another, in part

because no course is unambiguously better than
all of the rest. Instead, we have laid out the paths
for the policymakers, and it will be up to them
to choose which to take. The Obama Administration has made its choice, at least for now. Whether this path will lead the United States to a better
place is yet to be determined. We can all hope that
it will, and there is some reason to believe that
it can. But if it does not, the administration will
soon find itself right back at the same intersection, with the same choices but less time, fewer
resources, and perhaps a weaker will to choose
the next path and see if it will lead to the place we
seek: a place where Iran is no longer the bane of
the United States in the Middle East, and perhaps
is even America’s friend once again. Given the difficulty of following any of these paths, Americans
should be ready to settle for the former, even as
they hope for the latter.

Th e Sa ba n C e n t e r at Th e B ro o k i n g s I n s t i t u t i o n

155

The Saban Center for Middle East Policy

T

he Saban Center for Middle East Policy was
established on May 13, 2002 with an inaugural address by His Majesty King Abdullah II of
Jordan. The creation of the Saban Center reflects
the Brookings Institution’s commitment to expand
dramatically its research and analysis of Middle
East policy issues at a time when the region has
come to dominate the U.S. foreign policy agenda.
The Saban Center provides Washington policymakers with balanced, objective, in-depth and
timely research and policy analysis from experienced and knowledgeable scholars who can bring
fresh perspectives to bear on the critical problems
of the Middle East. The center upholds the Brookings tradition of being open to a broad range of
views. The Saban Center’s central objective is to
advance understanding of developments in the
Middle East through policy-relevant scholarship
and debate.
The center’s foundation was made possible by a
generous grant from Haim and Cheryl Saban of
Los Angeles. Ambassador Martin S. Indyk, Senior
Fellow in Foreign Policy, is the Director of the Saban Center. Kenneth M. Pollack is the center’s Director of Research. Joining them is a core group
of Middle East experts who conduct original research and develop innovative programs to promote a better understanding of the policy choices
facing American decision makers in the Middle
East. They include Tamara Cofman Wittes, a

156

specialist on political reform in the Arab world
who directs the Project on Middle East Democracy and Development; Bruce Riedel, who served
as a senior advisor to three Presidents on the Middle East and South Asia at the National Security
Council during a twenty-nine year career in the
CIA, a specialist on counterterrorism; Suzanne
Maloney, a former senior State Department official who focuses on Iran and economic development; Stephen R. Grand, Fellow and Director
of the Project on U.S. Relations with the Islamic
World; Hady Amr, Fellow and Director of the
Brookings Doha Center; Shibley Telhami, who
holds the Sadat Chair at the University of Maryland; and Daniel L. Byman, a Middle East terrorism expert from Georgetown University. The
center is located in the Foreign Policy Program at
Brookings, led by Brookings Vice President Carlos Pascual.
The Saban Center is undertaking path-breaking
research in five areas: the implications of regime
change in Iraq, including post-war nation-building and Persian Gulf security; the dynamics of
Iranian domestic politics and the threat of nuclear
proliferation; mechanisms and requirements for a
two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict; policy for the war against terrorism, including the continuing challenge of state sponsorship
of terrorism; and political and economic change
in the Arab world, and the methods required to
promote democratization.

W h ic h Pa t h t o P e r si a ? O p t i o n s f o r a N e w A m e r i c a n S t r a t e g y T o wa r d I r a n

BROOKINGS
1775 Massachusetts Ave., NW
Washington, D.C. 20036-2103
www.brookings.edu

A N A LY S I S PA P E R
Number 20, June 2009

WHICH PATH TO PERSIA?
Options for a New American
Strategy toward Iran

Kenneth M. Pollack
Daniel L. Byman
Martin Indyk
Suzanne Maloney
Michael E. O’Hanlon
Bruce Riedel

