Chapter 1: Introduction and context secondsHello everybody. Greetings to our global audience. Today is October 3 when we are recording this and when we publish this secondsis it will be October 4. But uh our guest, we are greatly honored to have secondshim uh is on the other side of the world where it is October 4 already and uh secondsby virtue of having very privileged conversations like the ones we are beginning to have right now. We are secondsalmost at 100,000 subscribers. We are a premier channel. Thank you very much for supporting us. We are totally secondsindependent media. Nobody pays us. We are only supported by contributions from people such as those who are listening secondsto us. So if you wish to continue with this, kindly go on and uh go to our Substack channel, same name transition secondsprotocol for less than what you would pay for a cup of coffee for a whole month. We will deliver these conversations inside your mailbox twice minute, 1 seconda week. Alex, lots of going lots is going on in the world. Instead of taking minute, 8 secondsthe off-ramp uh that was offered to him by President Xi, Trump uh decided to continue with his madness and has now minute, 17 secondsordered the third aircraft carrier group to be in the Indian Ocean. God knows what good that will do because two minute, 25 secondsaircraft carrier groups hasn't done very much. Interest rates have gone up to 7.2% 2% for mortgages in the United minute, 33 secondsStates, the highest it has been in many many years. Uh price of diesel has doubled. That has led to prices of everything going up, particularly food. minute, 44 secondsAnd within a month, a trillion dollars will be taken off the economy in terms of uh that portion of the economy that minute, 52 secondshelps people with medical problems, Medicaid cuts, so that rich can become richer. So with all that going on, Alex, minuteswe are deeply interested in hearing what you have to say, bringing your perspective, your years of experience in the financial industry. Please go ahead. Chapter 2: Economic crisis by design minutes, 12 secondsUh Zulfikar, first of all, thank you for the kind introduction and congratulations on your channel's uh success. minutes, 20 secondsI'm very happy to join you today. Uh, unfortunately, you know, uh, I I do not have a crystal ball and I don't have the minutes, 28 secondspalanteer either. So, we're going to have to [laughter] we're going to have to uh speculate a minutes, 36 secondslittle bit about what the future is bringing, especially in the short term. minutes, 40 secondsIn the long term, I can give you certain um predictions which I would say are a minutes, 48 secondsmathematical certainty. in the short term we I'm I'm guessing but I have the impression that the crisis that we're uh minutes, 58 secondsexperiencing in the world namely the economic crisis of the of the western minutes, 5 secondsworld the looming financial crisis um war in Ukraine minutes, 14 secondsand the war in the in the West Asia I think are going to get worse before minutes, 21 secondsthey get better. And along along with them, I think that u financial crisis is minutes, 30 secondsgoing to uh come to an inflection point where things are going to start to uh collapse very rapidly. minutes, 38 secondsYou know, rapidly relative to what we've known so far because as you said, today minutes, 45 secondsis uh 3 October. your end for October, my end, minutes, 52 secondslife is still relatively normal. You go to a pharmacy, there's medicines on uh uh on the shelves. You go to minutessupermarkets, there's food on the shelves. Uh we know that throughout history there's been episode of acute crisis where practically everything minutes, 9 secondsvanishes. Uh everything comes uh in short supply, prices explode. uh certain minutes, 17 secondssocial services are no longer provided and so forth. Anyway, the reason why I think that minutes, 24 secondsthe the economic crisis in the west is largely self-inflicted and it's getting worse. And I have the impression that it this is by design. minutes, 34 secondsThis is not uh an an accident. And I've I've long argued uh that based on the on minutes, 42 secondsthe historical precedents like Germany in the 1930s uh Ukraine minutes, 49 secondsuh after its independence in 1991 and then particularly after the western sponsored coup in 19 2014. minutes, 58 secondsIt seems to me that the the social engineers that are preparing the western world for war minutes, 6 secondsuh start by imiserating society because it's very minutes, 13 secondshard to get prosperous people who have good jobs, who have meaningful career uh minutes, 20 secondsprospects, who are looking forward to life and who think in terms of yeah why why don't we trade with Russia for minutes, 29 secondsexample rather than going to war. It's very difficult to persuade them to go to war. So first you have to emiserate minutes, 36 secondsthem. First you have to basically steal their future so that they see no prospects and then you give them an minutes, 44 secondsalternative narrative. Do you say like well you see how bad things are. It's all because of Russians and it won't get better until we go and kill the minutes, 52 secondsRussians. And so then you start you start um broadcasting these minutes, 59 secondsum neofascist narratives that you know suddenly suddenly Russia is the existential enemy. And this always minutes, 8 secondshappens you know when when the when the ruling establishments find themselves cornered because they have practically minutes, 17 secondsuh plundered all the wealth in their society. Uh then they uh cry barbarians at the gate and then they get all the minutes, 26 secondsfighting aid age males in the society or most of them to fight a foreign enemy minutes, 35 secondsand that way you get rid of most of them because this is the cohort that's the greatest risk to your to your um to your minutes, 42 secondssystem to your establishment. you know, fighting age males are going to be the one if there's a revolution or a civil war, that's who's going to be your minutes, 51 secondsenemy. So, you tell them to go fight the Russians instead and you get rid of them in in in large numbers. And then you're left with uh widows and orphans, which minutesif you're a member of the Epstein class, you think like that's great stuff, you know, and nobody to protect them. So, minutes, 7 secondsuh, I I think that by design this crisis is going from bad to worse and it's probably going to continue going from minutes, 15 secondsbad to worse because it's being driven in that direction. You know, when we take when we talk about the uh oil Chapter 3: Energy and conflict dynamics minutes, 22 secondsmarket disruptions, it's very hard to avoid the impression that this is being done deliberately. Example, the minutes, 31 secondsdestruction of the pumping stations on the East West pipeline in Saudi Arabia minutes, 38 secondsthat has been done so well and so thoroughly judging by the satellite uh images minutes, 47 secondsthat whoever did it was you know planned that action very thoroughly and executed it uh very professionally. minutes, 57 secondsAnd uh as it turned out, the Ansarala uh said it wasn't us. minutes, 5 secondsAnd then Iranians said it wasn't us either. minutes, 10 secondsAnd then the suspicion fell on the Iraqi uh militias, but they said we didn't do minutes, 16 secondsit either. So who did it? And if it was, you know, rogue elements of the western minutes, 25 secondsintelligence agencies together with IDF, Mossad, whoever, you know, SenCom, we don't know. There may minutes, 33 secondsbe they may be very rotten carveouts in all this. It could be American uh joints special force operations who are minutes, 41 secondscompletely unaccountable. you know we know what their budget is but even the Congress people in the United States may minutes, 48 secondsnot know what kind of uh kinetic action they they are engaged with there's British SAS who are you know capable minutes, 56 secondsmilitary units so we don't know who did it but we've seen now for many many months that minutes, 6 secondsrefineries oil stoages um minutes, 13 secondsoil distribution networks worldwide have come under sustained attacks that that that just keep happening. minutes, 22 secondsrefineries in the United States, refineries in Europe, refineries in the Middle East, refineries in Africa, refineries in Russia, they keep coming minutes, 30 secondsunder attacks and oh, it's it's the Ukrainians. Oh, it's the Yemenes. Oh, it's um you know, some terror network. minutes, 38 secondsBut the fact is that this keeps happening almost as though this is a wanted outcome. And now you minutes, 46 secondsknow the United States is facing um a fuel crisis. Not in the sense the fuel is not available but that it's become minutes, 55 secondsextremely expensive to the point where it's causing problems to to you know to to the economy. minutes, 3 secondsAnd Donald Trump uh says in public minutes, 10 secondscalls on Zalinski in Ukraine not to target refineries in Russia for in order minutes, 18 secondsnot to uh further curtail diesel production in the world. And what happens within days Zalinski turns around and attacks a refinery in Russia. minutes, 31 secondsSo, you know, if if Ukraine's biggest ally has no minutes, 38 secondsleverage over Ukraine's president who is supposedly in charge, who's running the show? minutes, 47 secondsIt doesn't seem to be that it's Trump. It doesn't seem to be that is Zalinski. minutes, 52 secondsThere's something else going on. And this something else is is uh the reason why we have to speculate about outcomes minutes, 59 secondsbecause we don't know exactly uh I I kind of propose to call this something minutes, 5 secondselse the Angloionist conspiracy. Um why they are pushing the world towards uh an Chapter 4: The Anglo-Zionist conspiracy minutes, 12 secondsacute energy crisis. There could be a few explanations. minutes, 18 secondsUh I don't know which one is right, but uh for sure it doesn't seem that they minutes, 25 secondshave any um inclination to relent because if if Trump himself calls on Zalinski to stop hitting you Russian minutes, 34 secondsrefineries and then Zalinski turns around and strikes at a at a Moscow refinery, then you know Trump's not in charge. minutes, 42 secondsClearly his government's not in charge. minutes, 45 secondsuh they're all dancing to the tune that's that's emanating from somewhere else minutes, 52 secondsand it all seems somehow coordinated, you know, similar outcomes in the Middle East, similar outcomes in Russia, minutes, 58 secondssimilar outcomes in Ukraine, similar outcomes across Europe and in in the United States as well. minutes, 7 secondsSo judging by all that I would say they will push minutes, 15 secondsto worsen this conflration. minutes, 20 secondsUh, and I fear that maybe their intent is to minutes, 28 secondsescalate military conflicts because the current system minutes, 35 secondsof governance in the West is so rotten. It's so fraudulent and it's it's a house of cards that's on the verge of collapsing. minutes, 46 secondsAnd I think that they are panicked, the people who are in control. minutes, 52 secondsAnd I think that their only uh venue of hope is to set the whole world on fire minutes, 1 secondto somehow weasel out of the barrel brawl and to then return pretending to be the minutes, 10 secondspeacemakers and to say like, "Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. minutes, 13 secondsOkay, we have to, you know, we need a new Breton Woods agreement. We need a new United Nations. We need, you know, minutes, 21 secondsnever again. Uh, we're going to put some war criminals behind bars. We're going to put them on trial and so forth. And minutes, 28 secondsthen we get again, you know, the Versail treaty, the postw World War II uh peace, new alliances and so forth. And I and I minutes, 38 secondsI expect that that initiative would uh would then emanate out of the city of London minutes, 46 secondswhich I think is the ultimate culprit for everything that we're experiencing in the world today. Chapter 5: Nuclear tension and Iran minutes, 53 secondsAlex, you have talked about the city of London uh uh in our earlier broadcast and it's a fascinating subject and very minutesfew people will disagree with your characterization of what the city of London is doing because it has been doing that for at least 100 years maybe minutes, 9 secondslonger and unfortunately all the problems that we see postc colonialism the the the artificial minutes, 18 secondsboundaries the conflicts uh on and on and on and on they emanate from the minutes, 24 secondsextraordinary level of depravity that emanated from the city of London. So uh minutes, 31 secondsthe problem that I see is that uh 100 years ago maybe even 70 years ago post World War II minutes, 40 secondsuh countries did not possess the kind of lethality that they have in their weaponry as is the case today. I mean, minutes, 48 secondsIsrael is uh is rumored to have 300, maybe 400 atomic weapons. Uh enough to minutes, 56 secondswipe out half the world, maybe maybe more. Uh Iran is not waiting for for Israel to use minutes, 4 secondsthose lethal weapons. We have privileged uh intel into Iran and we have reported minutes, 10 secondsthis in our channel that the supreme leader gave permission uh that was about a month ago maybe 6 weeks ago for Iran minutes, 19 secondsto to proceed from 60% enrichment to 90% enrichment. Now that was on the specific minutes, 27 secondsrequest multiple request from the majus which is the the parliament and as you know as everybody would know who is minutes, 36 secondsinformed about these matters going from 90% enrichment to an atomic weapon is just a turn of a screw away not uh you minutes, 45 secondsknow not not too much more effort will be required for that and if Israel would would commit this extraordinary barbar minutes, 54 secondsparity of unleashing a nuclear weapon on Iran. Iran is prepared to strike back. minutes, 1 secondIn fact, from our intelligence that we receive from very informed sources inside Iran, Iran is capable of minutes, 10 secondsdetermining when if that hap if if and when that is going to happen and strike first. They have they have said this repeatedly. minutes, 19 secondsstatements out of from uh Mosen Razai, right-hand man of of uh of the supreme minutes, 25 secondsleader, head of military is that we will attack if we are even suspicious of an minutes, 33 secondsattack coming our direction. This is a change from where they were uh at the beginning with this conflict. So an minutes, 40 secondsopportunity was provided to Trump uh by first by Aimuner the field marshall of Pakistan uh multiple times at least minutes, 49 secondstwice to take the offramp and both times it was done on the behest of Trump. Uh minutes, 56 secondsboth times he declined. Then when President Xi came here he made that offer very specifically. minutes, 5 secondsWhat makes uh Trump do these extraordinary stupid things? Chapter 6: Trump's foreign policy minutes, 13 secondsYeah, that's that's the perfect question and I I I struggled to explain it to myself, Zulfikar, but minutes, 19 secondsyou know, somehow when you when you try to ex because I I was one of those people who uh up until just a few days minutes, 28 secondsbefore uh the attack on 28th February uh by by Israel and the United States against Iran, minutes, 37 secondsI was arguing that never in a million years will Trump go to war against Iran because it is so stratospherically minutes, 46 secondsstupid that nobody is that dumb. So of course they're not going to attack Iran. minutes, 55 secondsUh and I was I was thinking, you know, Trump is a or at least seemed to be a very minutes, 3 secondstransactional type of mindset. And so on the one side you have uh Israel which is minutes, 10 secondsa huge liability to the United States uh minutes, 17 secondsin in practically all terms in all ways financially militarily uh strategically minutes, 25 secondsit's all just downside risk but it Iran is potentially minutes, 33 secondsa business partner because It's a large country with 92 million population minutes, 42 secondswith very highly educated uh workforce uh one of the top countries in the world minutes, 49 secondsin the number of engineers uh that it produces through its educational system and the fifth country in the world in minutes, 58 secondsterms of natural resource wealth. It's also very strategically placed to be minutes, 4 secondslet's call it the anchor of uh security architecture for the whole region. So, minutes, 13 secondsof course, partnering with Iran made all the sense in the world because that could be a business minutes, 21 secondsbonanza for American businesses, for American corporations, you know, to simply partner up with minutes, 29 secondsthe Iranian counterparts and develop business and then to minutes, 37 secondsstart to expand their reach in the in Eurasian markets. It made all the sense in the world. So when Trump pulled the minutes, 46 secondstrigger and and attacked Iran, I was I was shocked. And then you know, how could you possibly explain minutes, 54 secondsthat he has done he has that he has done the dumbest of all possible moves? minutes, 2 secondspresidents be behind before him were pressured into doing and declined to do minutes, 9 secondsand even he himself declined to attack Iran in 2019 when he was heavily minutes, 16 secondspressured into doing it by the by the British uh embassy in in Washington DC. minutes, 22 secondsWe have to always remember that that it was the British embassy in Washington DC was kind of the ring leader of this of minutes, 30 secondsthis pressure on Trump to to go to war against Iran at that time. So um minutes, 39 secondsI've in the last two years you know I've come come across Alex you know uh you're not that far off and the reason why a Chapter 7: Influence in the White House minutes, 47 secondslight bulb went in in in my head is because this is what uh the secretary of war not the secretary of defense as we minutes, 56 secondshave you know had in the constitution for the last you know a few hundred years Pete Hex this is what he believes minutes, 2 secondsin. I mean he he he is an he is an advocate of this uh you know holy war. minutes, 11 secondsHe's a holy warrior. minutes, 13 secondsYes. Uh correct. I will say this Zulfikar once you take this esquetological minutes, 22 secondsperspective into account then the more you observe minutes, 29 secondsthe more evidence you find. you know, the uh let's say that the real world evidence rather than shooting down the minutes, 37 secondsstory, it actually increasingly corroborates the story. minutes, 42 secondsUm the role of the role of Jared Kushner, it's very strange. Why is he there? Who minutes, 49 secondselected him? Uh why would he even be involved in everything? He's like the Swiss Army knife of the US foreign minutes, 56 secondspolicy. He's everywhere negotiating with the Russians, negotiating with the Israelis, negotiating with uh minutes, 4 secondscoordinating with Israelis, deeply involved in uh in Israeli military industry and intelligence uh apparatus minutes, 13 secondsum negotiating with all these Middle Eastern uh Gulf kingdoms uh to try to to minutes, 21 secondstry to subdue subdue Iran or get them to heal somehow. minutes, 25 secondsHe doesn't have the first he doesn't know the first thing about negotiations. minutes, 28 secondsHe have no diplomatic experience. He's like actually just happens to be a minutes, 35 secondswealthy guy from New York. Um who built his wealth in a way that doesn't make him look particularly minutes, 43 secondsimpressive. you know, if you if you have been a real estate investor in the United States, you didn't need to be too minutes, 50 secondsbright because basically the it would be like buying gold and then minutes, 58 secondsseeing gold prices double from I don't know 2021 until 2025 and then what it's not like you're a minutes, 7 secondsgenius that just happened. The market the market just gave you a windfall. So the Kushner family became billionaires minutes, 16 secondson the back of the US real estate market, but they didn't invent anything. minutes, 20 secondsThey didn't, you know, I I listened to Jared Kushner many times giving interviews, giving speeches. minutes, 29 secondsHe's not an impressive man. minutes, 32 secondsThe United States is capable of sophisticated, impressive leadership. there's a lot of quality minutes, 41 secondsamong the American people, among American diplomats and instead we get this one billionaire minutes, 48 secondsuh boy prince who now seems to be the dominant influence on the on US foreign minutes, 56 secondspolicy and I have to mention another name uh who is also in the same camp Steven Miller. Chapter 8: The 'Trump whisperers' minutes, 4 secondsNow, Steven Miller in in in a recent interview um with um Colonel Lawrence Lawrence Wilkerson, minutes, 13 secondshe said that he has very credible um minutes, 19 secondsinformation from inside of the Trump White House that Steven Miller is one of the most powerful people in the minutes, 26 secondsgovernment that he's practically directing US for foreign policy. minutes, 32 secondsNow the interesting ste thing about Steven Miller in addition of him being an arzionist is that he was also minutes, 40 secondsidentified by the Washington Post in the aftermath of that 2019 push to go to war against Iran as one of the quote unquote Trump whisperers. minutes, 50 secondsBecause what happens then is in 2009 19 was that um the Iranians shot down a a minutes, 58 secondsdrone uh over Persian Gulf and then there was this big push minutes, 5 secondsuh to pressure Trump into going to war against Iran. And the whole pressure campaign was run out of the British uh minutes, 14 secondsembassy under Sir Kim Derek who was then ambassador now his lord Kim Derek. minutes, 21 secondsAnd uh then in the aftermath of that there was a a a leak minutes, 28 secondsof cables that went be be between the British embassy in Washington and the minutes, 35 secondsforeign office in London between Sir Kim Derek and the foreign office. minutes, 40 secondsuh a bunch of these cables were released leaked out by anonymous and uh what what minutes, 48 secondssir Kim Derek was saying at that time was that well you know he they were very very disappointed that Trump didn't attack Iran minutes, 57 secondsbut he was saying that uh if we surround Trump if we he used the words flood the zone minutes, 6 secondsaround Trump with Trump whisperers Then the next time Iran does anything minutes, 13 secondsprovocative, Sir Kim Derek believed that they could push Trump over the edge to minutes, 24 secondsattack Iran finally and to go to take the United States to war against Iran. minutes, 29 secondsAnd um later the Washington Post minutes, 36 secondsuh identified a number of these quote unquote Trump whisperers and Steven Miller was one of them minutes, 45 secondsand uh there's another group of people um Kelly Kellyanne Conway minutes, 52 secondsuh off the top of my head um gosh I I I can't I I think seven or eight of them Washington Post identified minutes, 1 secondby name and they're still they're still close to the government but one of the main main people was Steven Miller and minutes, 9 secondsso now Steven Miller turns out to be one of the most powerful people in US government. A final question that I Chapter 9: Resistance in Yemen and Iran minutes, 16 secondswould like to pose to you because of your uh scholarship in this. Iran is not minutes, 23 secondsgoing to oblige the Zionists and the you know and the Trump whisperers and the minutes, 30 secondscity of London and the Rothschild and everybody else with with just lying down minutes, 37 secondsand allowing them to run it over. In fact, Iran has demonstrated uh 3/4 of minutes, 44 secondsthe US population believes this has has emerged dominant has emerged victorious and the majority of the people in the minutes, 52 secondsworld believe this. So that plot doesn't seem to be going too well. minutes, 58 secondsUh no, it's it's going horribly wrong for the Zionists. And I think that well minutes, 7 secondsyou know how um Ansarala launched this assault on uh on Saudi backed minutes, 15 secondsum [clears throat] the southern trans transition council government. minutes, 20 secondsYes. uh took control of the Babal Mandeb trade and are continuing to take control minutes, 27 secondsover large areas of of uh southern Yemen and might even expand this war to minutes, 36 secondsreclaim the three provinces that were taken from them in the 1930s by the Saudis and they might end up dethroning minutes, 43 secondsthe Saud family as a as a consequence of all this. And so, you know, this wasn't just like a knee-jerk reaction like that because the Saudis bombed Sanai airport. minutes, 56 secondsThis was a an operation that has been planned for minutes, 3 secondsuh I I I'm using the timeline given by uh Alistister Crook who who is very very well informed about these things and and minutes, 12 secondsa very very credible analyst. Uh this operation has been planned for at least 7 years minutes, 19 secondsand it was executed in a in a very impressive fashion. It was very effective minutes, 28 secondsand the reason why I mention this because it's it's as as Alistister Krook says it's it's more than a military action. It's it's minutes, 37 secondsactually a beginning of a revolution in Western Asia. minutes, 41 secondsAnd uh we know also that this has been planned in coordination with Hezbollah minutes, 48 secondsin Lebanon and that um Hassan Nasalla had a special envoy minutes, 57 secondsin Sana uh to lies with with Ansarala. minutes, 7 secondsWe found out this year just a few weeks ago. Until then, we didn't know. So, I have to ask myself, what else do we not minutes, 16 secondsknow? Because, as we know, the Iranians have been preparing for this conflict against the empire for over 20 years. minutes, 28 secondsWe know that they have built this deeply impressive uh underground minutes, 36 secondscities practically that the United States with all their big bombs hasn't been a hasn't been able to minutes, 45 secondseven put a scratch on. They keep they they hit some of these sites dozens of minutes, 52 secondstimes and they keep launching missiles from those sites. So, you know, I I have to ask myself, what minutes, 1 secondelse do we not know? What other preparations uh have been planned and and and minutes, 8 secondsprepared that might just be explode into reality minutes, 17 secondsin the in the very near future? uh like like the Yemeni uh minutes, 25 secondsmilitary action over the over the last few weeks. So I think that not only is minutes, 32 secondsthe current war against Iran and against Yemen gone horribly wrong for the Zionist, but I think there's a minutes, 41 secondsthere there's a whole hail storm of consequences that is coming their way. minutes, 46 secondsAnd on the other side, you know, Trump is bringing there the third air aircraft carrier strike group. minutes, 56 secondsEverything they do is very transparently um obvious minutes, 4 secondsto the axis of resistance to the Iranians to the Yemenes to to everyone else who's opposed to to uh minutes, 13 secondsthe Angloionist conspiracy in that in that region. minutes, 18 secondsAll they do is they launch sorties and drop bombs. They have nothing else. And this has obviously failed for more than minutes, 26 seconds10 years now. They've been they've been launching um bombing raids against Yemen for more than 10 years today. This started in in late 2014. minutes, 38 secondsfirst, you know, the proxy war run uh by Saudi Arabia, supported by not just the minutes, 45 secondsUnited States, but in particular by the British because the British were uh the number one enabler of uh Saudi war minutes, 55 secondsagainst Yemen from 2014 until 2022. minutes, 1 secondThen we had uh the operation prosperity guardian launched in December of 2023 minutes, 9 secondswhich was not just the United States. It was it was a good chunk of NATO who participated in it with French warship minutes, 16 secondswarships, Italian warships, British warships. Uh they all participated in this operation minutes, 24 secondsdid nothing. And then uh in March last year, Trump launches the operation minutes, 34 secondsRough Rider and he's announcing now we're going to take care of them. We're going to bomb them like nobody's ever seen before. And minutes, 42 secondsthen a few weeks later they have to tuck their tail and and beg practically beg the Yemenes for a for a truce for a minutes, 49 secondssettlement so that uh they can the the the naval traffic can still go through through the Babal Mandab strait. minutes, 58 secondsSo if they were not able to to subdue Ansarala for 10 years, minutes, 7 secondswhat are they going to do now that's going to be different? minutes, 12 secondsAnd Iran is still more powerful than Ansarala and hasn't shown all their minutes, 20 secondscards just as a as an exercise in imagination. minutes, 25 secondsUh and and I don't I don't know this to be true, but when I you know when you think about it, how has Iran been able to build all minutes, 35 secondsthese underground facilities which are enormous? They didn't do it with a with a pickaxe and and shovels. minutes, 44 secondsSo, I suspect that one of the one of the very effective and advanced technologies that the Iranians must have developed is minutes, 52 secondsthe is the boring technologies, the the excavation technologies. minutes, 57 secondsYou know, if they have these very impressive missiles, maybe they have also very impressive uh excavation technologies. minutes, 6 secondsOkay, if that's the case, how far could they have built their t network of tunnels over the last 20 years? minutes, 17 secondsI don't know the answer to that question, but it's a I I think it's extremely interesting to consider because, you know, this could be this minutes, 26 secondscould be one of the surprises that are in the you remember like a few uh like a year or two ago, Russians uh staged a minutes, 34 secondsvery spectacular military operation where uh Russian infantry, I forget the number minutes, 42 secondsof them, but I guess maybe a few dozen or or or 200 or so, minutes, 48 secondsuh used uh an emptied pipeline to advance behind the enemy lines and then attack them from behind. minutesDid I I don't know if you remember that operation. Yes. Yes. Yes. Chapter 10: Eschatological motivations minutes, 4 secondsSo you see the ability to go to go underground and turn up in force where the enemy has minutes, 11 secondsno idea that you could you could be um can be a very powerful military um minutes, 20 secondsnot weapon facility, let's say piece of infrastructure. minutes, 24 secondsAnd we don't know, we don't know what cards Iran and their axes of resistance minutes, 31 secondshave uh up their sleeve, but I think that the more Trump and the Israelis f minutes, 38 secondsaround, the more they'll be finding out and we all will be finding out. minutes, 44 secondsWell, I've been saying that uh we have been saying that on this channel uh since we started uh 90 days ago and uh minutes, 51 secondsit has been proven again and again and again to be true. So the final question Alex has been fascinating conversation. minutesThe final question I'll ask you is the following. Yes. Uh I totally understand this escal escology that you have minutes, 7 secondsexplained and I believe that there are number of signs that point to that. I mean, look at his secretary of war. I mean, you just have to look at his minutes, 16 secondstattoos. You know, he's inscribed all over his body that he is a holy warrior. minutes, 21 secondsLook at the ambassador to Israel. I mean, he believes that Armageddon must happen so that rapture needs to take minutes, 29 secondsplace. I mean, the Hakabe, this complete clown and and there are so many others. minutes, 35 secondsAnd in the United States, the biggest group that has never never withdrawn their support of Trump, regardless of what he does, including insurgencies, minutes, 44 secondsincluding, you know, crimes and all kinds of stuff, are the evangelicals. I mean, that is his largest support group, the evangelicals. minutes, 52 secondsCorrect. minutes, 53 secondsAnd then and that support never goes away. I mean, it is at 30% of the US voting voting population or US minutes, 1 secondpopulation. And it has remained that regardless of the level of depravity that Trump demonstrates. So I mean it's minutes, 9 secondsjust everywhere. But Iran is not obliging. In fact, Iran is turning the tables. minutes, 15 secondsYes, they have lethality, you know, undisclosed. Mach 10, I'm told, is the is the speed at which their latest minutes, 24 secondsmissiles can travel. Nobody can stop a Mach 10 missile. There is no there is nothing that will stop that. and and it minutes, 32 secondscan break out into into multiple warheads and cause you know extraordinary devastation. This these this naval blockade is being conducted minutes, 40 secondsfrom you know many many thousands of kilometers away is actually a joke. It's not a real blockade. So Iran is not minutes, 49 secondsobliging. These people are hellbent on achieving their rapture or whatever it is that they're trying to achieve. you minutes, 56 secondsknow, the laughable assertion that Mr. Trump is the first messiah. I mean, my god, you minutes, 4 secondsknow, that has got to be truly truly bizarre. So, with Iran not obliging, Allah not obliging, what happens then? Chapter 11: Final outlook and conclusion minutes, 17 secondsYeah. Uh that question exactly leads me to the conclusion that very probably further es escalation minutes, 26 secondsbecause uh this level of crazy cannot tolerate minutes, 33 secondsthe idea that Iran is suddenly the dominant force in the region and that minutes, 39 secondsall their um plans and agendas are now essentially broken. minutes, 47 secondsThey're not going to make peace with that. So, you know, unless there's some kind of a of a coup where, you know, minutes, 56 secondsthey removed Trump from office and they conduct a thorough purge of all these minutes, 6 secondsZionist uh elements from the from the American um from the American government structures. minutes, 15 secondsuh they're just going to be be pushing forward. They're going to be pushing forward at all costs because, you know, minutes, 22 secondsmy god uh rapture, Armageddon, uh the Messiah, um all these things are so much more minutes, 29 secondsimportant than American democracy. And whether, you know, the whether diesel cost uh $6 or $10, who cares? This is minutes, 37 secondsfar too important, you know, and look at us. We're making it happen. minutes, 42 secondsUm, so if that's what's driving the events, minutes, 49 secondsthen they're going to get worse before they can get better. minutes, 56 secondsAlex, uh, honest to God, I say this with utmost sincerity. This is the first time I've been talking about it regularly minutes, 3 secondsevery day for the last, you know, 3 four months since this channel got started. minutes, 8 secondsuh you have actually made sense by advancing an extraordinary theory. You know, you have actually made sense. minutes, 16 secondsYeah. Well, you know, I I I can't take credit. Yeah. I I I don't take credit for this. minutes, 23 secondsI have um I I I have heard it from other people, minutes, 30 secondsbut I've heard it from people who are very very well-versed and very learned. minutes, 37 secondsand very learned in these matters. minutes, 42 secondsAnd then you know I went and did my own research and then I've been paying attention to minutes, 49 secondsyou know what Trump is saying what uh Kushner is saying what Hexath is saying what various of these Habad rabbis are minutes, 58 secondssaying what um Benjamin Netanyahu and people around him are saying and u you minutes, 5 secondsknow all of it falls very close to these minutes, 12 secondsesqueological ideas. So I think that it would definitely be uh a line of reasoning to explore and minutes, 21 secondsand to investigate further. Uh I I have to say I I I hope that I'm wrong because it's just minutes, 30 secondscrazy on a level of crusades, you know? It's that Yeah. It's that insane and it's that minutes, 38 secondspotentially destructive. You know, back during Crusades, we had cold weapons. minutes, 44 secondsNow we have nuclear weapons. So, you know, I I I I would prefer to be wrong. minutes, 50 secondsI I I would much prefer to be wrong, but I I have to kind of look at things as they appear, and you know, they appear profoundly crazy. minutes, 2 secondsWell, Alex, fascinating conversation as always, and you opened up uh my eyes and minutes, 10 secondsears to something that had beeled me literally since the beginning of our channel, since we started exploring minutes, 19 secondsthis. Nobody has been able to explain this. And this is the only thing that actually makes sense. Repeatedly, minutes, 26 secondsrepeatedly it makes sense. So, thank you so much. I really appreciate uh having you here. I appreciate your perspective. minutes, 34 secondsI mean you are not a person who engages in engages in conspirator theories. You are a financial expert. Financial uh you minutes, 42 secondsknow uh markets are your are your expertise and here you are talking about explaining the crazy in escological minutes, 51 secondsterms. So it makes sense. Uh so many so many signs in that direction. So thank you very much. I shall see you two weeks minutes, 59 secondsfrom now. Two weeks too long. Uh but I really appreciate your time and and I'm grateful that you made your time minutes, 6 secondsavailable to us. To our audience, if you like what we have to offer to you, which is extraordinary commentary from minutes, 15 secondsextraordinary people with great expertise and knowledge and informed opinions, please go to the Substack minutes, 22 secondschannel, become a paid member because that is the only way we get supported. minutes, 25 secondsWe don't take money from anyone. For less than what you will pay for a cup of coffee, we will deliver this twice a week inside your mailbox. ￼ 