[Alex Krainer's Substack]

Alex Krainer's Substack

Subscribe

Sign in

Playback speed

×

Share post

Share post at current time

Share from 0:00

0:00

/

260

95

38

Steppin' out into the blockchain

Breaking the matrix

[Alex Krainer's avatar]

Alex Krainer

Jun 21, 2025

260

95

38

Share

Transcript

A few days ago I published an article in which I drew a parallel between people living under the western control matrix and chickens living in industrial feedlots. In part, my point was to draw attention to the fact that after so many generations under this matrix and an ideology defining our systems of finance, credit, medicine, education, security, religion and social norms, it would be difficult for many of us to even conceive of a life outside of the matrix. What’s more, we might not even know ourselves outside of it – what we are really like and what we could become once we’ve emancipated ourselves from it.

What is clear however, is that this matrix is toxic to humanity and that we must break free. We will probably begin to discover much, much better versions of ourselves. Without a doubt, one of the key steps in our emancipation – if not THE key step – will be the reform of the monetary system.

The money system and our voluntary servitude

The money we use today represents the chains that keep us bound and deprived of the opportunity to develop our full potential. It rigidly restricts the way we can earn a living, and exchange goods and services with others. We live in an abundant world, but our access to its bounties is limited by the money system that’s been imposed on us. If you don’t have money, everything is out of reach. We are the only species living under such artificial restrictions. It’s voluntary servitude.

The advent of cryptocurrencies holds potential to advance our emancipation from the current money prison, which is why so many have enthusiastically embraced the blockchain revolution. Indeed, blockchain could be as important to the transformation of the money system as the Arabic numerals have been to math and sciences.

I wholeheartedly believe this but still, until just a few weeks ago, I personally never actually bought any crypto currency. I missed the boat on Bitcoin. I first started to look at Bitcoin in 2017 when it was trading between $400 and $500. Back then, I decided to buy some, not because I knew what was about to happen, but because I thought that it was basically a positive binary proposition: it could go to zero, in which case I lose 100% of my investment, or it might appreciate five-fold or ten-fold. Unfortunately my then spouse disagreed, so I dropped it. Who knew that it would actually appreciate 250-fold.

Bitcoin… or maybe something else

Today my Bitcoin enthusiast friends poke fun at me because I said that I’m still keen on buying Bitcoin, just as soon as it drops back to $20,000. They think that’s hilarious, but I think that even if Bitcoin was the best thing in the world, the price at which you buy it is still very relevant. I am a believer, but not so much at the current price which is about $103,000. Almost everyone expects that it will keep on going up infinitely but Bitcoin had several 80%+ retracements over the last 10 years, so we’ll see.

As far as other cryptocurrencies go, I looked at a few but it seems to me that most of these are fraudulent issues and as a result I never bought ANY cryptocurrency at all. This all changed in April when a friend of mine sent me his book titled The Raven’s Enigma. Along with it, I learned that he also issued the cryptocurrency named XORD, which is somehow related to the book, only I haven’t read it yet so, I’m not yet sure how it all comes together.

[]

What I did read was his business plan which struck me as an inspired creative outburst of a mad genius: it’s so unusual and so original, it might just work. Like Satoshi, he prefers to remain anonymous, so instead of using his own name, his pseudonym is Cesare de Monte Calvi.

What sets his block chain issue apart for me is that I’ve known this Cesare de Monte Calvi for nearly 40 years, I’ve worked with him on various projects and I never once came to doubt his integrity. He is also one of those authors whose penmanship makes me slightly jealous.

The Raven’s Enigma

When I started reading Raven’s Enigma I was hooked from the first sentence, which reads as follows:

Russian winter freezes landscapes, breath crystallizes into spectral frost, yet blood rages—defiant, unyielding, burning through veins too narrow to contain its own fury.

Use of language like that simply gives me goosebumps. The prose continues…

Russia does not forget, nor does it forgive. It lives by an unspoken code, one older than empires, etched in blood and silence.

This was the world I entered—naïve, yet unwavering—drawn to a land where the ghost of Fyodor Dostoyevsky still roams, his fists clenched, his teeth bared. I was a priest, yet it was not the sacred that lured me here—it was the forbidden.
Well, I told “Cesare” that I wouldn’t be able to read the book before my vacation in August – there’s more than 500 pages to work through – so I asked him what the book was about. He explained that his intent was to put together

“an uncompromising descent into the depths of historical espionage, Vatican secrets, and the war for control over knowledge itself. It operates at the intersection of AI, intelligence operations, cryptography, religious deception, and realpolitik, weaving a narrative that forces the reader to question everything they think they know.
He said that writing the 514-page book was “a nightmare,” that it doesn’t fit any neat categorization or genre but blends and transcends them, and that at some point, “the book started to ‘demand’ to be expanded…” Ultimately, it led to the birth of blockchain issue, XORD.

Marking the point in time…

Cesare did ask me to mention his book in one of my articles or videos and I agreed to do so. But as I began to slowly digest the material I began to think… this is either completely mad or utterly brilliant and I decided to devote a whole article to it, as a way to mark this point in time, in case Cesare’s project reaches its full potential. Or exceeds it, who knows.

Perhaps it is again a positive binary proposition: either it fails and goes to zero, or it lives in which case it could appreciate, not ten-fold but perhaps 250-fold or more. Maybe XORD will be something people will talk about and use in the future – only time will tell.

Before concluding this entry, with Cesare’s permission, here’s what he wrote to me:

  You understand systems of control better than anyone. You challenged the system—your books were banished. This is my attempt at liberation—of the story and value alike. No publisher owns this. Screw Amazon bans. (One of my books was also banned from advertising there—not killed like yours, but rendered invisible.)

  No platform controls it.

  So I’m selling only 100 books to those who want to support XORD’s fight for the freedom denied in every “Prove You’re Not a Robot” moment — this robotic denial of our humanity.

  If it resonates, please send your readers to the book purchase link — The Raven’s Enigma exclusive edition. It includes 50,000 XORD tokens and lifetime access to the system. For more context your readers can visit

  https://xord.io

  — including the book’s opening, illustrations, and the larger system and decide for themselves.

  Thank you, my friend, for your time,
  Cesare

Cesare also told me that the book's cost of printing is $47 per copy, which doesn't surprise as it is printed in hardcover and contains nearly 100 color illustrations. Cesare also insisted that I must disclose that I now hold 1% of the XORD token supply. So there it is: I hold 1% of XORD.

[]

This is all for today. I wanted to share this story for whatever it is, or may be worth in the future. This could be us breaking our way out of the dehumanizing matrix where freedom is slavery, ignorance is strength and war is peace. We are better than that. Far, far better and I am convinced that as we make those discoveries we will fall head over heals in love with humanity.

Alex Krainer's Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.

Subscribe

Alex Krainer – @NakedHedgie is the creator of I-System Trend Following and publisher of daily TrendCompass reports which cover over 200 financial and commodities markets. One-month test drive is always free of charge. To learn more about TrendCompass reports please check our main TrendCompass web page. To start your trial subscription, drop us an email at TrendCompass@ISystem-TF.com, or:

  Check out TrendCompass report on Substack, providing daily trend following signals for 18 key global markets, including Bitcoin and gold, for under $1/day!

For US investors, we propose a trend-driven inflation/recession resilient portfolio covering a basket of 30+ financial and commodities markets. Further information is at this link

[]

Discussion about this video

Comments

Restacks

[User's avatar]

[Alex Krainer's Substack]

Alex Krainer's Substack

Subscribe

Authors

[Alex Krainer's avatar]

Alex Krainer

Recent Posts

[]

Hemp talk with Charles Kovess

Jul 25 • Alex Krainer

[]

Pandemics and the march of totalitarianism (part 2 of 2)

May 29 • Alex Krainer

[]

Economic growth or prosperity?

May 21 • Alex Krainer

[]

Life in the feedlot, or on God's green earth?

Jun 10, 2025 • Alex Krainer

[]

Gods of finance & dogs of war

Apr 21, 2025 • Alex Krainer

[]

Europe's idiocracy goes to the dark side

Mar 30, 2025 • Alex Krainer

[]

Ukraine "rare earths" deal: the empire's fatal mistake

Mar 8, 2025 • Alex Krainer

Ready for more?

Subscribe

© 2026 Alex Krainer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice

Start your SubstackGet the app

Substack is the home for great culture

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts
