[Alex Krainer's Substack]

Alex Krainer's Substack

Subscribe

Sign in

The hidden hand: monstrous conspiracies and the swamp

The trail of evidence almost always leads to the moneylending oligarchies.

[Alex Krainer's avatar]

Alex Krainer

Feb 04, 2025

336

210

35

Share

[This post was originally published at I-System TrendCompass]

Mayer Amschel Rothschild (1744-1812) allegedly said, "Let me issue and control a nation's money and I care not who writes the laws." This statement has been very widely quoted, but what, exactly does it mean? Rothschild's contemporary Napoleon said that, "When a government is dependent upon bankers for money, they and not the leaders of the government control the situation." One of the directors of the Bank of England, Josiah Stamp (1880-1941) said, "Banking was conceived in iniquity and was born in sin. ... if you wish to remain the slaves of bankers and pay the cost of your own slavery, let them continue to create money and control credit."

Are events spontaneous, or is there a hidden hand?

But it is difficult to relate these quotes with day-to-day events. We can observe our leaders' statements and actions; we can see the activities of corporations and merchants and we can read the news about global events. But if there is a hidden hand secretly directing those events toward certain outcomes, this is not readily discernible and it may only become apparent in patterns of events. Some people believe there's a hidden hand, but others don't and the former are usually dismissed as conspiracy theorists by the latter.

Conspiracy theorists are regularly ridiculed for their views and disqualified in serious discussions. But what, then, of the statement made in 1956 by the FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover who said that, "The individual is handicapped, by coming face-to-face, with a conspiracy so monstrous, he cannot believe it exists. The American mind ... rejects even the assumption that human creatures could espouse a philosophy, which must ultimately destroy all that is good and decent." Was Hoover also a risible conspiracy theorist?

[]

Spontaneous wars all the time?

Either way, if conspiracies do exist, what are they? Which world events stem from spontaneous developments and which ones are driven by the hidden hand? Somehow, we're at war all the time: the US started more than 80% of all wars in the world between 1946 and today. This is an empirical fact: a group of American researchers published an article in the American Journal of Public Health and stated that,

  "Since the end of World War II, there have been 248 armed conflicts in 153 locations around the world. The United States launched 201 overseas military operations between the end of World War II and 2001, and since then, others, including Afghanistan and Iraq."

Did all those 201+ conflicts erupt spontaneously, perhaps out of desire to rid the world of evil? Remember, Milosevic was very bad. Saddam Hussein was a monster. Ghadaffi was a madman. Chavez was a Communist. Maduro is a Socialist. Bashar al Assad is a brutal dictator. Putin is Hitler. It just never ends.

Xi Jinping is also very, very bad and give it time, we'll get him too. He made a deadly virus in the Chinese CCP controlled Wuhan lab and attacked us with it out of sheer malice. Or did he? In a recent interview with Alex Jones, Dr. David Martin gave this statement:

  "There are 63 gain of function weapons beyond the Coronavirus weapons. There are four that are corona virus specific. But there are 63 other biological weapons currently in production in United States universities right now. And if President Trump were to take an executive action to save humanity, what he would do is, he would actually place a moratorium on every single one of these gain of function programs and shut down all 67 active programs right now. If he was going to do the right thing. Because, what's the end game? The end game has always been - and Bill Gates said this very clearly in 2011, the World Health Organization has stipulated this from 2011 and they resaid it again in 2018 and 2019 - their end game is the decrease of the population of humanity on this planet. And that's a polite way of saying that these are sociopathic murderers who are actually building weapons to conveniently turn what we call health care into the front line of the biggest mercenary deployment of mass-murdering psychopaths we've ever seen on this planet. And we as a society need to understand that it's not coming from a foreign adversary. It's coming from domestic adversaries who are intent on destroying the orderly structure of the United States..."

Was it all for our health and wellness?

As we now know, National Institutes of Health have been funding gain of function research through various organizations including the University of North Carolina, Ecohealth Alliance and dozens, perhaps hundreds of biolabs managed by the US Department of Defense and the Pentagon. The DOD owned up to running 48 biolabs in Ukraine. Former undersecretary of State Victoria Nuland confirmed as much explicitly in August 2022 Senate hearings when questioned by Senator Marco Rubio.

Obviously, for any such work to be done, it must be funded. It is equally obvious that the American people are only now learning about covert funding of these projects. If gain of function research is publicly discussed at all, it is discussed under the assumption that its objective is to find cures for diseases, prevent pandemics, etc. It would be monstrous to suggest otherwise. Who would fund tinkering with viruses to make them more deadly and more infections for any nefarious reason?

Clearly, only loopy conspiracy theorists would even entertain such an idea. But then, what to make of the fact that vaccines have been getting less safe and effective over the last 30 years? As I wrote here back in July based on over 30 years of VAERS data analyzed by data scientist Craig Paardekooper, while vaccines are causing more and more adverse reactions, fewer and fewer people recover from these adverse reactions. Here’s what I believe to be perhaps the most important chart in the world:

[Consistent “honest errors,” or a hidden hand?]

I posted the discussion with further explanations in a July 2024 article titled, "Inject nothing!" One would think that with time and new technological and scientific advancements, vaccines would be getting increasingly safer and more effective. But the data shows that the opposite is true. Is this a 30-year consistent sequence of honest mistakes or is a hidden hand somehow involved? We won't learn much from courts and the legal discovery process, because vaccine manufacturers enjoy legal immunity from liability suits.

Thanks for reading! This post is public so feel free to share it.

Share

However, this does in fact call to mind Bill Gates famous TED presentation about how "we" could reduce world population if we do a great job on new vaccines, etc. What if Bill Gates was serious and not just speaking hypothetically? And it's not just the vaccines: in spite of having he world’s most expensive health care system, more than half of Americans suffer from Chronic diseases, most are overweight or obese, 25% of American women are on antidepressants and 40% of teenagers have a mental health diagnosis. Of course, it doesn't stop there: one in 36 children have autism and on the whole, children born in the US have a 76% higher risk of death before reaching adulthood compared to 19 other democratic nations.

What if J. Edgar Hoover was right and there really are conspiracies so monstrous that an ordinary person cannot believe that they exist? What if John F. Kennedy wasn't just being paranoid on 27 April 1961 when he warned us about the "monolithic and ruthless conspiracy" and about the "very grave danger that an announced need for increased security will be seized upon" by the conspirators to advance their agenda? What if the narratives about the different madmen and Communists are contrived to seize upon the need for increased security? What if the fear of Russians invading Europe serves the same purpose? How about viruses or climate change?

What’s all that got to do with the bankers?

Even if J. Edgar Hoover and JFK had a point and there really are monstrous, ruthless and monolithic conspiracies out there, how does any of that relate to money and banking? How does Mayer Amschel Rothschild’s statement above figure in that equation? Given that the hidden hand is hidden, and tries had to remain hidden, we can’t expect to find documented evidence or “how to” manuals laying it all out for us. But what we do have episodes of history when important aspects of the truth are revealed.

One such example was when in November 2020, the climate czar and former governor of the Bank of England Mark Carney explained how the ruling class would push the “Great Reset” through: "We need a whole economy transition... it's really about looking for, and at the transition plans from all companies and backing those who are part of the solution and talking capital away from those who are part of the problem." Another example was the Coronavirus pandemic itself when the IMF offered financing to governments around the world on condition of them implementing the pandemic measures like lockdowns, masking and social distancing. I detailed this story in an August, 2020 article, “Covid 19: the Banking Cartel is Driving the Agenda.”

There are other revealing moments and if we follow the trail of evidence in our search for the hidden hand, the path almost always ultimately leads to the moneylending oligarchies, and then we can begin to appreciate Lord Acton’s warning that, “the issue which has swept down the centuries and which will have to be fought sooner or later is, people versus the bankers.”

Will Trump be able to drain the swamp? An what will the pond scum reveal?

Today, it appears that the new administration in Washington has resolved at last to confront some of these ruthless and monstrous conspiracies and evidence about them has started to come to light. With time we'll know more about how much our recent history has been shaped by spontaneous events and how much by the hidden hand behind the throne of power. Hopefully, we will ultimately learn also about the owners of that hidden hand and about their agenda.

Alex Krainer's Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.

Subscribe

Alex Krainer – @NakedHedgie is the creator of I-System Trend Following and publisher of daily TrendCompass investor reports which cover over 200 financial and commodities markets. One-month test drive is always free of charge, no jumping through hoops to cancel. To start your trial subscription, drop us an email at TrendCompass@ISystem-TF.com, or:

  Check out TrendCompass on Substack where our new Key Markets report, covering 16 key global markets is priced at under $1/day!

To learn more about TrendCompass reports please check our main TrendCompass web page. We encourage you to also have a read through our TrendCompass User Manual page. For US investors, we propose a trend-driven inflation/recession resilient portfolio covering a basket of 30+ financial and commodities markets. Further information is at link.

336

210

35

Share

Previous

Next

Discussion about this post

Comments

Restacks

[User's avatar]

[Allen's avatar]

Allen

Feb 4, 2025

Liked by Alex Krainer

Lab leak theory is complete nonsense. Gain of Function is a money laundering scam that has zero basis in biological reality. Patents prove nothing except...there are patents.

Covid-19" was not an epidemiological/medical event it was a long planned geopolitical event- akin to the phony "War on Terror."

The Covid Operation was set in motion in the summer of 2019 and launched in March 2020 in order to change the entire financial and social order of The West due to a confluence of existential crises that were facing the ruling class parasites which could no longer be kicked down the road.

The introduction of the Covid-19 “emergency” was the circuit breaker and the rationale used to freeze the US banking system and provide the opportunity to inject massive amounts of cash into the system that went to large financial investment and banking firms- aka bailouts. Same was done in the EU.

There was no pandemic ever- there is no “lab leak”- there is no “unique viral pathogen”- there is no “China Virus”- there is no “bioweapon”- There is no “There” there.

Covid-19, the disease, is nothing more than a disease of FALSE ATTRIBUTION. Covid-19, the media event, was the Trojan Horse constructed to usher in a complete transformation of our society- an endeavor of complete social control. Covid-19, the operation, was never an epidemiological event, it is a business model meant to increase the portfolios of the super-wealthy.

There is no such thing as “Covid 19” except as a criminal conspiracy. The official narrative of “Covid” is fictional- all facets of it.

The lab-leak claim posits that SARS-CoV-2 is an engineered quasi-biological phenomenon rather than the computer-generated apparition it is.. This theory advances the fanciful Reality TV-like plot that a bioweapon miraculously escaped—or was released intentionally—from a biological research facility in faraway Wuhan, China, only to go on a rampage and kill millions of people. By implying that the virus was a man-made microbial murderer, promulgators of the lab-leak fable avoid facing the fact that the last four-and-a-half years were a deliberate, highly organized culling of the global population under the guise of protecting public health.

The lab-leak theory reinforces the idea that "the virus" is a real problem that needs to be solved rather than a fear-based control mechanism. It bolsters the notion that a deadly, man-made, "novel"virus caused an "unprecedented medical emergency" for which a raft of invasive policies—including the worldwide suspension of basic civil liberties—would become justified.

Another consequence of accepting the lab-leak supposition is to distract attention from how the perception of a pandemic/mass panic was conjured with staged Hollywood productions, doomsday models, and the meaningless PCR tests that fraudulently manufactured cases and spuriously attributed deaths from other causes to Covid.

But perhaps the biggest problem with promoting the lab-leak theory is that it reifies the Big Lie that there ever was a pandemic caused by a unique viral pathogen in the spring of 2020. In so doing, the theory hides the crimes that were committed in the hospitals and nursing homes and provides cover for the criminals who designed and executed this top-down operation.

Reply

Share

90 replies

[Frances Leader's avatar]

Frances Leader

Feb 4, 2025

I am bored of all these vague phrases you (and many others) insist upon using. It is lazy or maybe it is fear driven? You tell me!

Documented historical facts about "the hidden hands" are still available online, despite the constant deletion of websites. For a summary of this INTERNATIONAL CRIME SYNDICATE please read: https://francesleader.substack.com/p/black-nobility-101

"Gain of function" is a pathetic and weak way to describe POISON if you ask me! Biolabs are making poisons. Remember that the word "virus" is Latin for poison. The truth is right there in the use of the word.

Again, well documented science examines the delivery methods:

https://francesleader.substack.com/p/cliff-carnicom-blood-alterations

Reply

Share

4 replies

208 more comments...

Top

Latest

Discussions

No posts

Ready for more?

Subscribe

© 2026 Alex Krainer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice

Start your SubstackGet the app

Substack is the home for great culture

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts
