[Alex Krainer's Substack]

Alex Krainer's Substack

Subscribe

Sign in

Is private enterprise best?

Western free market ideology says, yes; but empirical evidence and real life experience says, no. Private enterprise often destroys value rather than create it.

[Alex Krainer's avatar]

Alex Krainer

Jul 17, 2026

228

104

45

Share

One of the axioms of Western free market system is that privately owned enterprises are superior to state owned enterprises in just about every way. However, this axiom is largely based on ideology, not evidence: it is assumed that the nature of ownership is the key factor determining an enterprise’s performance, and that private ownership aligns owners’ interests with those of the company’s customers. As a rule, the magic of free market capitalism ensures that the customers get better service, better quality and variety of products, and bien-sur, lower costs. To boot, the owners make profits and everyone lives happily ever after.

[Computer says, NO.]

However, empirical evidence simply doesn’t support this. At the very least, real-life experience suggests that not all private enterprises are superior, nor are all state-run enterprises inferior. In the past, I shared the experience with the trash collection services in Croatia. During the socialist era, trash collection was run by state companies, and our towns and cities were clean and orderly. I remember that many foreign visitors would remark how our cities were remarkably clean, and they really were.

But then, in the early 2000s, the service was privatized and the magic of private, free market capitalism took effect. Today, trash collection is much more expensive than before, private owners reduced the number of collection points, forcing everybody to carry their trash farther (effectively working for trash collectors for free), and the cherry on top is that our cities are no longer clean and orderly. Here’s what my home city of Rijeka often looks like:

[Not a great look, especially if your No. 1 industry is tourism.]

What the images above can’t convey is that this doesn’t smell like roses either. Here’s a recent photo from Zadar, a beautiful medieval town on the Adriatic coast, one of Croatia’s top tourist destinations:

[Trash collection is a profitable business today, and the seagulls are great fans.]

The amazing case of UK’s Thames Water

Another fascinating case of the wonders of private enterprise has been making front-page news in Britain these days. Earlier this week, Thames Water, Britain’s largest water utility company, disclosed that they were about to run out of money and their annual results showed that they’re £18.5 billion in debt. The independent online news publication, OffGuardian, appropriately commented:

  “You are a monopoly. You are selling something literally everyone needs for literally everything they do literally every day and that falls from the sky for FREE. How in the hell are you not making money?”

To make the very long story short, Thames Water was privatized in 2006. It was acquired for about £8 billion by an investment consortium led by the Australian merchant bank Macquarie. The following year, Thames Water made £241 million in profits. So far, so good - yay, free market capitalism! But the new owners paid themselves £656 million in dividends in 2007, nearly triple the profits the company earned. Thames Water continued to pay its owners over £200 million in dividends every year for seven consecutive years.

When it was privatized in 2006, Thames River had zero debt, but already in the first year under its new owners, the company’s debt load went to £3.4 billion. By 2017 it soared to £10.8 billion and by 2026, as we saw, to £18.5 billion. That raises an obvious question: why did this profitable monopoly need to borrow that much money? To answer that question, we must keep in mind that a client’s debt is its banker’s asset; which the bank conjures from thin air, and which has to be serviced from the client’s cash flow. It’s a neat business - a legalized, open-ended looting operation.

Macquarie dressed up all those debts as legitimate investments; addressing the mounting scandal in 2024, the bank’s spokesperson said as follows:

  “We have had no influence over the decisions taken at Thames Water in the seven years since our managed funds sold their final equity stake. During the 11 years in which our funds were shareholders in Thames Water, we oversaw the largest investment programme in the company’s history and the highest rate of investment per customer in the industry.”

Whatever this largest investment programme, highest per customer in the industry was, it was NOT done to improve the service it provides to its customers. To the contrary, in private ownership, Thames River service deteriorated spectacularly. Macquarie was perfectly aware of this, and knew to get out just in time. Only eight days after Macquarie sold its stake to Omers and the Kuwait Investment Authority, Thames River was slapped with a record £20.3 million penalty, imposed for huge leaks of untreated sewage into the Thames and its tributaries. This had serious adverse impacts on residents, farmers and wildlife, including a mass killing of birds and fish.

That incident and the fine was only the first of many that followed, as the company’s infrastructure was neglected and left to crumble under its private owners. In the four years after Macquarie’s exit, Thames River was fined £32.4 million for 11 water pollution cases involving recurring spills of untreated sewage into streams, rivers and the sea. Thames Water wasn’t the only private utility polluting Britain either: between 2015 and the 2023, there were 59 prosecutions of water companies in England.

In 2018, then environment secretary, Michael Gove said that the companies had been “playing the system for the benefit of wealthy managers and owners, at the expense of consumers and the environment”, concealing their looting operations “behind complex financial structures.” Indeed, one of the first things Thames River’s owners did after they acquired the company was to set up offshore subsidiaries in the Cayman Islands. This is not normally required to improve water treatment service for customers in England. What it does do, however, is facilitate large-scale looting of public wealth and money laundering. Even Thames River employee pension scheme wasn’t spared: in 2008, the company’s pension fund had a £26.1m surplus. By 2015, it was £260 million in deficit.

Pensions are often Exhibit 1 entitlement for those who like to rant about “socialism” and how it is ruining the world because it’s too generous an entitlement, because socialist politicians cater to people’s desires to get free stuff, etc, etc… But Thames River’s pension fund was fine until the non-socialist private owners took charge. First they loot people’s savings, then they blame the victims and demand purer forms of private enterprise capitalism as a solution to the problem they created. Epic!

Who’ll take out the trash?

The evidence from countless real-life experiences from around the world is very abundant and it suggests that private ownership of businesses isn’t remotely a guarantee that they will be net value creators. In many cases, they prove to be net value destroyers. Investing in quality of services and products a significant cost item, and private owners are always incentivized to cut costs. They are also incentivized to extract as much wealth from the enterprise as possible, often hollowing out the systems that were built up and developed on public purse over decades.

Defending this invariably falls back on ideology, and the ideology often has to be correspondingly insulting and stupid. For example, the widely admired titan of Western thought, Murray Rothbard argued in favor of free market capitalism by simply mocking socialism, not on the basis of any evidence, but on pure conjecture:

  “If... everyone under socialism were to ... produce ‘according to his needs,’ then, to sum it up in the famous question: Who, under socialism, will take out the garbage? That is, what will be the incentive to do the grubby jobs, and, furthermore, do them well?”

Many will knowingly nod and agree: so true, so true… Nobody’ll take out the garbage under socialism so let’s ignore the evidence of our lying eyes. After all, who are we to question the venerable Murray Rothbard. Again, the argument devolves to ideology and to justify absurdities, it has to devolve to absurdities as the above quote.

Under socialism, trash did get taken out. Under state control, British water utilities ran better than they did under private ownership. In fact, the argument is not over socialism vs. capitalism; it is about systems of incentives that determine the performance of enterprises and the ultimate outcomes.

Thank you for for reading! This post is public so feel free to share it.

Share

It’s not about socialism…

This could be a complex task but the very least, real-life evidence should prompt us to question what we think we understand about human economic activity and its ultimate objectives. Both water treatment and trash collection are extremely important to human communities, since they impact their quality of life, as well as public health. Untreated sewage in our waterways is obviously a highly undesirable problem. Uncollected trash is food not only for seagulls, but also for maggots, cockroaches, mice, stray cats and rats. Potentially, it can lead to outbreaks of infectious diseases at a massive cost to society. Turning the job over to private, for-profit enterprise can come with a catastrophic cost for nearly everyone involved.

The point here is to sidestep ideology in favor of simple clear thinking and pragmatic solutions that are in everyone’s best interest. Things like social services, infrastructure, public health, and education shouldn’t be regarded as profit centers but as foundations of a healthy and well-ordered society. There are compelling arguments in favor of treating also transport, health care, education, infrastructure, communications and credit allocation in the same way. These ideas should be analyzed and discussed with an open mind. All too often, even educated people simply fall back to labels and dismiss whatever they think falls under the wrong label (you’re a damn socialist!).

At the very least, we can all agree on the obvious: we want our trash taken out regularly; we want our towns to be clean and orderly; we want clean water supplied to our homes and our trains to run on time. Rather than obsessing iver ideology, we should simply ask, how do we get those values in the most reliable, efficient way possible? It’s not complicated, and it definitely doesn’t require Cayman Islands subsidiaries.

Alex Krainer's Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.

Subscribe

Alex Krainer – @NakedHedgie is the creator of I-System Trend Following and publisher of daily TrendCompass investor reports which cover over 200 financial and commodities markets. One-month test drive is always free of charge, no jumping through hoops to cancel. To start your trial subscription, drop us an email at TrendCompass@ISystem-TF.com, or:

  NEW: Check out our daily TrendCompass on Substack, covering 19 key global markets, incl. gold and bitcoin at under $1/day

For US investors, we propose a trend-driven inflation/recession resilient portfolio covering a basket of 30+ financial and commodities markets. Further information is at this link.

228

104

45

Share

Previous

Next

Discussion about this post

Comments

Restacks

[User's avatar]

[Joanna Martin's avatar]

Joanna Martin

Jul 17Edited

What you describe isn't "private enterprise". You are describing GOVERNMENT GRANTED MONOPOLIES.

They are inherently immoral. Someone who wants the contract to perform an essential service makes a "deal" (wink wink) with someone in government to get the contract. Then they have a monopoly with no "pesky" competition. This isn't "private enterprise" - it's government granted monopolies. The holder of the monopoly privilege has no incentive to do a good job. The customers have no choice and can't go with a competitor because there is no competition.

In the US, the United States postal service delivers the mail (Article I, Sec. 8, clause 7, US Constitution). But they weren't doing a good job. So Federal Express (a private company) stepped in. They got no monopoly privilege - they operate along side the US Mail Service. It worked so well that "United Postal Service", another private enterprise, stepped in. Now, Americans have a choice between the US Mail, Federal Express, or United Postal Services to send & deliver their packages. No monopolies, no coercion, and there is COMPETITION! And we get GREAT Service!

In my rural County in the US, people take their trash to the dump. I would willingly pay someone to pick up my trash and take it to the dump. Several different entrepreneurs could step in to meet the needs of those who need their trash to be picked up. No need for a government granted monopoly for trash pick up. People in government love monopolies because it's an opportunity for them to get a bribe.

Alex! What WERE you thinking when you wrote your post!

Reply

Share

12 replies

[Alfred Nassim's avatar]

Alfred Nassim

Jul 17Edited

It is obvious that some things should be done collectively - rubbish, railways, roads, water supply, electricity, internet, army etc.

However, things like healthcare should be private and all the monopolies built on banning innovative or traditional treatments removed. Vaccines are obviously toxic. Half American kids under 18 have at least one chronic disease. If people paid doctors directly, the current ongoing scam would soon stop. Doctors never study healthy people. They love patients with multiple ailments. People should be responsible for their own health.

Cancer is a metabolic disease. It has nothing to do with genes. It comes from vaccines, medications, bad nutrition, toxic sun creams, lack of sunshine and so on.

BTW, I am 76. I have not seen a doctor or taken any medications for over 50 years. Not taken vaccines for 60 years. There were almost no vaccines in Africa when I was small.

Reply

Share

21 replies

102 more comments...

Top

Latest

Discussions

No posts

Ready for more?

Subscribe

© 2026 Alex Krainer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice

Start your SubstackGet the app

Substack is the home for great culture

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts
