[Alex Krainer's Substack]

Alex Krainer's Substack

Subscribe

Sign in

Could Trump's peace capsize the undead British Empire?

Peace in the Middle East and the defeat in Ukraine will prove extremely embarrassing for Britain.

[Alex Krainer's avatar]

Alex Krainer

Oct 13, 2025

406

146

53

Share

It’s only been four days since the Israeli cabinet approved Donald Trump’s Middle Eastern peace deal. In spite of much entrenched pessimism and incidents like the suspicious death of four Qatari negotiators in Egypt, so far the regional players have taken the deal seriously and it seems that their commitment is for real. My hunch, which I shared in Friday’s TrendCompass report, was that this development could turn out to be a “massive defeat for the Empire,” and that if the peace holds “the implications for the region would be nothing short of massive.”

[]

Apart from repurposing the region’s “unsinkable aircraft carrier,” which could complicate the Empire’s efforts in prevention of peace, it seems that Trump has now wrested the loyalty of states like Qatar, Egypt and Saudi Arabia away from the Empire. Here’s what I mean by that: it is important for us not to regard the United States as a monolith. By “the Empire” I’m referring to the City of London with its satellites on Wall Street, in Paris, Frankfurt, Basel, Tokyo, etc. Also, its lackeys in the British government along with the American Neocons Jake Sullivan, Victoria Nuland and Antony Blinken. It also includes the Empire’s minions staffing the key positions in the EU and NATO.

I believe that President Trump and his government (some of them at least), are NOT part of this imperial cabal. Of course, it is possible, as some say, that Trump is “controlled opposition” and that we’re witnessing an elaborate deception. However, I believe that this is unlikely. Such deception would be needless and overly elaborate; I can’t imagine why keeping it up would even be necessary. At any rate, Trump’s peace deal in the Middle East indicates that his government is real, not controlled, opposition and it has now put the imperial cabal in a bind: where were they while Trump and other leaders in the region worked to stop the genocide? Suddenly, they seem to be in a damage-control mode.

Scrambling for moral high grounds

UK’s education secretary Bridget Phillipson, who had vocally opposed any ceasefire in Gaza, went to SkyNews yesterday (Sunday, 12 October 2025) to claim credit for the Middle East peace deal:

  “We have played the key role behind the scenes in shaping this. It’s right that we do so because it’s in all of our interests, including our own national interest, that we move toward a lasting peace in the region.”

When her interviewer asked her to specify, “when you say, ‘behind the scenes,’ - like what?” Phillipson launched into an eloquent-sounding but hollow word salad that sounded like a student explaining the plot of “Ana Karenina” after she never read the book:

  “These are complex matters of diplomacy that we are involved in, but we do welcome and recognize the critical role that the American government played in moving us to this point…”

It’s complex, you see, so I don’t want to burden you with the details, but look how noble and magnanimous we are in welcoming and recognizing the role of the American government: they too contributed a little bit. But it seems that Ms. Phillipson either doesn’t know, or pretended she didn’t, that the Empire created Israel precisely for the purpose of preventing a lasting peace from breaking out in the region. If you’re in the Empire’s camp, you don’t want peace and that’s why you exerted no effort towards it. Then you explain the perpetual war you engineered as something that’s near-impossible to solve: it’s the “centuries-old hatreds” that are incomprehensible to us pure-hearted Westerners.

Then Trump swaggered into the region and solved it (at least for now), forcing the obvious question: why wasn’t this done at any point after 7 October 2023, hundreds of thousands of dead Palestinians ago? If it wasn’t too complicated for Trump, how was it too complicated all the sophisticated folks with posh accents in London? These uncomfortable questions are reason why Bridget Phillipson went to SkyNews yesterday. She herself spent months explaining why her government was staunchly against any ceasefire and did less than nothing to de-escalate the conflict.

Nobody’s buying it anymore

But her disingenuous attempt to usurp credit for the peace deal didn’t go unnoticed and it was torpedoed in very undiplomatic terms. U.S. Ambassador to Jerusalem, Mike Huckabee posted the clip of her statement on X and commented that, “I can assure you that she’s delusional. She can thank @realDonaldTrump just to set the record straight.” That post got 2.4 million views in under 24 hours. Even if it’s from Mike Huckabee, it’s not bad. For the British government, that was a humiliating rebuke, and it wasn’t the only one!

Italy’s Giorgia Meloni was sharper still, publicly blasting Phillipson’s boss Sir Keir: “If anything [Keir Starmer] harmed peace negotiations, trying to impose his master Tony Blair on Palestinians. Now he wants to get a photo op and claim he helped.” She added: “He should stop wasting his time meddling in international affairs and sort out his own country, the people are fed up.”

It’s only a few bad apples, you see…

But the Middle East peace isn’t the only piece of bad news for London. There’s also Ukraine, which is being lost… Inevitably, if the Empire loses in Ukraine, it will also lose the opportunity to craft the dominant narrative. Britain’s role there, and particularly Boris Johnson’s consistent efforts to sabotage peace in April 2022, after only 5 weeks of hostilities, will prove extremely embarrassing. To contain the damage, it seems that the cabal is ready to throw Johnson overboard and cast the blame for the whole fiasco on him and another few bad apples.

[Very bad apples.]

Namely, documents have been leaked online showing that Johnson has profited from the ongoing conflict in Ukraine. According to The Guardian reports published on Friday, 10 October, Johnson visited Ukraine in September 2023 together with his billionaire donor Christopher Harborne, who donated £1 million to a private company he founded after resigning as Prime Minister. For Johnson, that was killing one stone with three birds: striking at Russia, contributing to depopulation (-1.7 million Ukrainian men) and making a ~~buck~~ quid in the process. No wonder Johnson felt as jubilant at the time (video at link):

[So good, so good, so good!!]

Johnson dismissed this report, calling it a “pathetic non-story” derived from an “illegal Russian hack.” Of course: everything we hate is Russian, so please disperse, there’s nothing to see here... But through history, losing a war came with severe costs, and today may be no different. However, rather than taking the pain itself, the Empire will attempt to cast the blame to its unruly minions and push them under the bus.

Then, the narrative will be changed once more: we’ve always only wanted to be at peace with Eurasia but for a handful of corrupt bad apples… Once we’ve dealt with them, we’ll join the victory parade and celebrate the peace in which we ourselves played the key role, you see, behind the scenes we did, of course. By now however, anyone who’s paid any attention can see through this sinister game.

[Even the special relationship isn’t so special anymore…]

We want to keep Ukraine fighting and desire an all-out war with Russia!

In all this, the Empire’s scriptwriters and propagandists always counted on the public having low IQs and a short attention spans. But in the age of the Internet and social media, the same formula no longer works. In addition to throwing Boris Johnson and Christopher Harborne overboard, they’ll also have to explain Lieutenant General Charlie Stickland’s Project Alchemy which brought together a whole group of bad apples from Britain’s academic, military and intelligence institutions to put forward an array of plans “to keep Ukraine fighting,” along with plans to “aggressively pursue” and “dismantle” independent media outlets.

Project Alchemy’s “elders” were united by a desire for an all-out war between Russia and the West. That’s a very monstrous and sinister desire: the last time they orchestrated such a war, some 60 million people perished across Europe. What could possibly be the reason for desiring such a thing? The elders were kind enough to spell it out: in order to “defeat Putin in Ukraine and set the conditions for the reshaping of an open international order of the future.” Here are the full 36 pages of their monstrous recommendations:

Ukraine’s Next Chapter – Elders Grand Strategy Options Paper.

The fact that any group of “elders” would take such a cavailer attitude with a world war begs the question of whether there are any good apples in their ranks at all? Or is being a degenerated genocidal maniac a job requirement where they work? Judging by the quality of characters that have floated up to the top in the British institutions of power, and by the enterprise’s track record around the world over the past 300 years, this definitely seems to be the case.

The same system promotes individuals like Tony Blair and Boris Johnson to the very top while mercilessly destroying those like Andrew Bridgen, George Galloway and Jeremy Corbyn is selecting for dishonesty, degeneracy, and ruthlessness. Being a bad apple is par for the course and probably has been for centuries.

Hopefully, with the Empire’s defeat in Ukraine and Trump’s peace in the Middle East, the old, undead Empire will finally capsize along with its cabal’s dreams of an all-out war against Russia. That should be a good day for the rest of humanity, including for the people of the British isles.

Alex Krainer's Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.

Subscribe

Alex Krainer – @NakedHedgie is the creator of I-System Trend Following and publisher of daily TrendCompass reports which cover over 200 financial and commodities markets. One-month test drive is always free of charge. To learn more about TrendCompass reports please check our main TrendCompass web page. To start your trial subscription, drop us an email at TrendCompass@ISystem-TF.com, or:

  Check out TrendCompass report on Substack, providing daily trend following signals for 18 key global markets, including Bitcoin and gold, for under $1/day!

For US investors, we propose a trend-driven inflation/recession resilient portfolio covering a basket of 30+ financial and commodities markets. Further information is at this link.

[]

406

146

53

Share

Previous

Next

Discussion about this post

Comments

Restacks

[User's avatar]

[Ismaele's avatar]

Ismaele

Oct 13, 2025

Seriously... what's wrong with you "analysts" (or should I say "gatekeepers")? Simplicius this morning, now Alex Krainer tonight... Folks, please! If Trump really wanted peace in the Middle East, he could have just closed the tap of weapons and ammunition to Israel. Instead, it keeps letting Israel bomb Gaza, Lebanon, Syria, Yemen and Iran, where he also joined the fray. Wow! A real "peace president"... such a shame that he did not get the Nobel Peace Prize!

This "peace" deal is a fluke: there are plenty of signals indicating that Israel will restart its "war" (read: genocide of Palestinians) in Gaza very soon - I am writing an article on this and it will be out in my substack tomorrow evening: https://geopolitiq.substack.com/

P.S.: I am Italian and I keep an eye on Italian news and I have not heard/read anything about Meloni rebuking Starmer, nor has Grok apparently: https://x.com/King1856530/status/1977684148900024738

P.P.S.: That Marco Rubio's quote is pure disinfo, as proven countless times on X and elsewhere on the net.

Reply

Share

39 replies

[lisap77833's avatar]

lisap77833

Oct 13, 2025

Liked by Alex Krainer

Wow, Mr. Krainer, VERY WELL SAID! I pray, we all pray, you are right. This "empire" needs to be dead and buried. It has wrecked havoc and death on our planet for 400 years too long.

Reply

Share

144 more comments...

Top

Latest

Discussions

No posts

Ready for more?

Subscribe

© 2026 Alex Krainer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice

Start your SubstackGet the app

Substack is the home for great culture

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts
