[Alex Krainer's Substack]

Alex Krainer's Substack

Subscribe

Sign in

Who’s in charge of the Iran war at the White House?

A few important pieces of the puzzle have come to light, unmasking the armchair lords of war at the White House.

[Alex Krainer's avatar]

Alex Krainer

Sep 07, 2026

285

79

42

Share

[Originally published at I-System TrendCompass] US and Israeli attack on Iran on 28 February this year came as a huge shock to most people, including those who previously had a close personal relationship with President Donald Trump and thought they knew him well. Attack on Iran was the war that Trump explicitly promised his voters he would not start. Exactly what lead him to betray his voters remains a mystery, but by now we have enough puzzle pieces to stitch together a coherent picture, or at least a part of it.

[The guy on the left will know…]

The shadow government

Three weeks ago in this report (“Shadow government ready to sacrifice Trump?”), I shared an interesting insight from the recent interview with “Mossad’s most dangerous assassin,” Yuval Aviv on Danny Jones Podcast. Aviv claimed that the United States is run by a “shadow government,” which is “as high level” as it gets, and includes high-level ex- and current White House officials. He explained that this is “Not a club, not a cult, but a team of ex-officials [who] still think they know what’s good for America.”

He named two individuals who were part of this shadow government: George Bush Sr. and Dick Cheney. Others were “Ex-CIA, ex-presidents, … The people I met were the highest of the highest…” These revelations should not have come as a surprise to anyone paying even cursory attention to global events, and that state of affairs almost certainly persists and didn’t change in favor of legitimate, democratic government.

In fact, during the 3-hour podcast, Aviv spoke in a way that suggested that he continues to work with this shadow government and runs “special assignments” for them. He didn’t reveal any of the individuals who might be part of the shadow government today. However, if they are, as Aviv claimed, current or ex- White House officials, CIA, ex-presidents, etc, that should significantly narrow our list of suspects.

The most powerful men in the White House

Then, in an interview published on Friday, 5 September, Col. Lawrence Wilkerson, State Secretary Colin Powell’s Chief of Staff offered further clues. At about 13 min, 10 seconds mark, Col. Wilkerson said this:

  “… I think I learned definitively that the two people in the administration who now dominate [President Trump’s] thinking and dominate his production, if you will, including these idiotic things he puts out over the web, are Steve Miller, the deputy chief of staff for policy in the White House, who is far more powerful than his name and title designate. He’s far more powerful than Susie Wiles, for example, the chief of staff, and I’ve been told he’s more powerful than anyone in the cabinet, like Marco Rubio or even the vice president, JD Vance, or certainly Hegseth.

  I’m told by fairly reliable people. I won’t say they are 100% reliable, and they have their own axe to grind. Several of them are Biden people, but I’m told that the dilemma in the Pentagon now is becoming so acute that Hegseth’s time is numbered. His days are numbered. I would hope so, because he is particularly destroying the army.

  But he’s also got a deleterious effect on all the services across the board. But Miller is number one. No question in these people’s minds that Miller is number one. That even Vance and Rubio shy away from contradicting him

  And then the other one that surprised me a bit, although then I began to think about it, was that he was the main architect of Project 25 at Heritage. Is [Russell] Vought, the budget director. These two people in very strange places to have this kind of national security influence, are more effective with and more commanding of Trump’s attention and direction than any other two people in the administration”

The UK voice in the West Wing

In a way, I was waiting for the name of Steve Miller to stick out in this way. Col. Wilkerson is no longer in government, but given his stature and experience, it’s likely that he maintains contacts with people in government and in the military, and that what he found out is credible and valid. The reason Steve Miller’s name is particularly interesting here is because he was named as one of the “Trump whisperers” back during Trump’s first term in office, when an earlier push for war against Iran was made.

On June 20, 2019, Iran’s Air Defense Forces shot down a US Global Hawk surveillance drone over the Strait of Hormuz. Immediately a pressure campaign was mounted on Trump to launch a retaliatory strike, but at that time, Trump declined to act. The side that was frustrated the most about his reluctance to go to war were the British. As we later found out, Britain’s Ambassador to Washington, Sir (now lord) Kim Darroch fired off a series of memos to the Foreign Office berating Trump and calling him “incoherent and chaotic.”

These memos were leaked out on 7 July 2019 by “Anonymous” to great embarrassment of the British. For example, Sir Kim said:

  “We don’t really believe this administration is going to become substantially more normal; less dysfunctional; less unpredictable; less faction-riven; less diplomatically clumsy and inept.”

Darroch also included this revealing tidbit:

  “We have spent years building the relationships [with certain individuals]; they are the gatekeepers… the individuals we rely upon to ensure the U.K. voice is heard in the West Wing.”

Some of these voices included Trump’s National Security Advisor John Bolton who was a frequent visitor to the British embassy along with the former Chief of Staff John Kelly. On 8 July, the Washington Post described Darroch’s “coterie- including Kellyanne Conway, Stephen Miller, Mick Mulvaney, Sarah Sanders and Trump ally Chris Ruddy” who have met at the embassy and “share about the President and his decision-making.” The Stephen Miller named by the Washington Post, is the same Steve Miller that Col. Lawrence Wilkerson was talking about.

The leaked memos showed that Darroch called for “flooding the zone” around the President with Trump whisperers who can influence and nudge him toward opening hostilities against Iran. Darroch believed that Trump could still be influenced to launch the war against Iran if he could be,

  “surrounded by a more hawkish group of advisers… Just one more Iranian attack somewhere in the region could trigger yet another Trump U-turn.”

It’s not Netanyahu

Today it may appear that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu played the key role in taking the United States to war against Iran, but this almost certainly oversimplifies the real dynamics shaping today’s events. Mr. Netanyahu did play the role of the war’s salesman, but the broader geopolitical strategy that demanded that war, no matter what the American people wanted or voted for, was formulated and enacted at a higher place of power than the US Presidency.

Furthermore, we have to keep in mind that the whole Zionist project emerged from the very same seat of power as Sir Kim Darroch and serves the same masters. I believe it’s appropriate to call them the Anglo-Zionist conspiracy. Again, it’s one of those things that can destroy entire societies and nations, but can’t be changed at the ballot box.

This is probably the very “monolithic and ruthless conspiracy” that President John F. Kennedy warned us about on 27 April 1961. Kennedy described the conspiracy as one using “covert means for expanding its sphere of influence” and warned us about the “very grave danger that an announced need for increased security will be seized upon” by the conspirators to advance their agenda.

Thankfully for the conspirators, many people dismiss such unworthy conspiracy “theories” with scorn. That sort of stuff just happens, and we all are free as birds in our magnificent, export-grade liberal democracies. All that’s required of us is to obey, comply and conform. The rest will take care of itself thanks to the magical, self-perfecting system of checks and balances, and therefore there is no need for vigilance of any sort to pay as some supposed price of liberty.

Alex Krainer's Substack is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.

Subscribe

Alex Krainer – @NakedHedgie is the creator of I-System Trend Following and publisher of daily TrendCompass investor reports which cover over 200 financial and commodities markets. One-month test drive is always free of charge, no jumping through hoops to cancel. To start your trial subscription, drop us an email at TrendCompass@ISystem-TF.com, or:

  NEW: Check out our daily TrendCompass on Substack, covering 19 key global markets, incl. gold and bitcoin at under $1/day

For US investors, we propose a trend-driven inflation/recession resilient portfolio covering a basket of 30+ financial and commodities markets. Further information is at this link.

285

79

42

Share

Previous

Next

Discussion about this post

Comments

Restacks

[User's avatar]

[ChatterX's avatar]

ChatterX

Sep 7Edited

US presidents come and go, but FED/FBI/CIA/NSA/NED/DHS/ICE and the neocons' Wolfowitz Doctrine remain in the Deep Swamp..

So much for the "turnover of power"… turning into the "Continuity of Agenda"

***

"It doesn't matter who is ($)elected, we always get John McCain…"

***

Operation "Iraqi freedom" was the angelic title for the brutal invasion of Iraq.

Operation "Unified protector" was the fancy name for the destruction of Libya.

Operation "Timber Sycamore" was the name of the Program to arm and train the Radical Islamists with the purpose of overthrowing the government in Syria.

Operation "Enduring freedom" was the virtuous name given to the unjust invasion of Afghanistan. All in the name of "democracy"..

Operation "Prosperity Guardian" is bombing one of the poorest countries in the world - Yemen . The irony is really thick…

Operation "Epstein Fury" …

***

100-year history of US meddling, coups and wars in the Middle East:

http://youtube.com/watch?v=8bb8Z4j7h7A&t=2042s

Reply

Share

5 replies

[Diana van Eyk's avatar]

Diana van Eyk

Sep 7

I've always wondered about the real power behind the presidents, and behind many western leaders.

There's obviously something going on behind the scenes, especially considering the mental condition of the current and last president of the USA, and I think it goes a lot further than these presidencies.

Reply

Share

7 replies

77 more comments...

Top

Latest

Discussions

No posts

Ready for more?

Subscribe

© 2026 Alex Krainer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice

Start your SubstackGet the app

Substack is the home for great culture

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts
