[Alex Krainer's Substack]

Alex Krainer's Substack

Subscribe

Sign in

You will own nothing... if you let it happen.

Defending your wealth from the cabal could prove existential...

[Alex Krainer's avatar]

Alex Krainer

May 12, 2023

53

20

2

Share

They have a plan for us, and they announced the plan in terms that could not be clearer: you will own nothing… With the pandemic, they set the wheels in motion and a wide variety of weapons - some more and some less subtle - they’ve unleashed the plunder and the looting. The pandemic brought ruin to millions of small and medium-sized businesses across the world. In Holland and elsewhere in Europe, farmers are being expropriated under duress, ostensibly to fight climate change. In Canada, banks can now freeze people’s banking accounts, without even involving law enforcement and without due process. And inflation will gradually render everyone’s life savings and pensions worthless.

[]

The challenge could be existential!

In last week's "International Man" article, Doug Casey diagnoses the broader crisis as “the collapse of an overextended and corrupt empire,” and does what few financial analysts do, but which is absolutely essential for people trying to navigate the mind-boggling changes we are witnessing: he applies clear thinking and cuts to what is ultimately the most important challenge in the circumstances. "The real question," writes Casey, "is how to profit from the collapse…"

But the challenge of safeguarding our portfolios and preserving the purchasing power of our savings could be more important than merely squeezing a profit from the crisis: it could be existential. As Alexander Hamilton noted, “In the general course of human nature, a power over a man's subsistence amounts to a power over his will.” But the environment is now rife with risk and managing our investments more difficult than ever.

It’s hard to see any accurate information on anything!

The events are now unfolding at such break-neck pace and generating so much commentary, analysis and opinions that it has become next to impossible to keep up and discern sense from nonsense, let alone distill any clear ideas from it all. As Rabobank's Michael Every pointed out in yesterday's (excellent) article on ZeroHedge, "It is now hard to see any accurate information on anything." He illustrates his point by listing eight major geopolitical developments and adds, with an air of exasperation: “And that’s just one day in 2023 – NONE OF WHICH IS BEING REFLECTED IN MARKET FORECASTS ABOUT WHAT THE FUTURE LOOKS LIKE.”

Keep in mind, it is Michael Every's job to research and analyze markets in order to produce forecasts and investment ideas for his clients. He has staff armed with all the information tools and resources money can buy to support him. If it is hard for him to keep track, what chance do ordinary investors have? And the challenge is not trivial: we are not in some garden-variety crisis. As Casey said, we are witnessing the collapse of an overextended empire! He poses the question: "Is there any way to profit from the collapse of Western civilization? That's so serious that it's almost like asking whether it's possible to profit from an asteroid hitting the earth," and adds: "remember, most of the real wealth in the world is still going to exist; it's just going to change ownership." When the events are so mesmerising that many observers lose sight of the forest for the tree, clear thinking can be this helpful and refreshing.

Thank you for reading. This post is public so feel free to share it.

Share

Gain exposure to commodities and improve your skills as a speculator

So what's the answer to Mr. Casey's relevant question? He offers one I wholly agree with: "the best way to be hurt least, or possibly even profit within a very bad scenario, is to own gold, silver and other commodities. And to improve your skills as a speculator." Casey is spot on here: both intuition and empirical studies show that exposure to commodity prices represents far and away the best hedge against inflation. A paper published by Alliance Bernstein quantified the inflation-hedging impact of a variety of asset classes by calculating their inflation-betas. The following chart summarizes their results:

[]

Depending on how fast the crisis unfolds and how bad things we've been taking for granted deteriorate, profiting from the crisis is not at all a given. But even just preserving your wealth's purchasing power to a good extent could make a massive difference. When the bubble deflates, purchasing power will collapse and valuable assets will change ownership at unimaginably low prices.

For economic survivors, there’ll be an embarrassment of choice

In December 1922, when the Weimar inflation unraveled, the capitalization of whole of the Mercedes Benz corporation was equivalent to 327 of their cars - and I am sure they must have had close to that many in the production line and around their dealerships, implying that such a jewel of a business could be picked up essentially for nothing. At the same time, 6-bedroom villas in the fashionable suburbs of Berlin were changing hands for $100! That tidbit should be taken onboard by all who expect that real estate investments represent a valid inflation hedge. They don’t: when purchasing power collapses, real estate prices will collapse with it - first commercial, then residential.

For investors who manage to preserve their purchasing power in real terms, the world could look like one large embarrassment of choice. The crisis we are facing is profound but, as all crises do, this crisis too will end. And as Casey points out, even after the money dies, much of the real wealth will still be around. All this makes it worth paying attention, focusing and seeking to improve one's skills as a speculator. Owning gold and silver in physical form and if possible, also some farmland should be a substantial part of your portfolio allocations. Your liquid investable assets should be exposed to price trends in a diversified basket of financial and commodity futures covering metals, energy as well as agricultural commodities.

And the most important skills in speculation you should seek to acquire are:

-   trend following: Markets move in trends; if you learn how to navigate trends, you can trade Crude oil and Copper as easily as the S&P 500, US T-Bonds, Coffee, Silver or any other market. Trend following could indeed prove to be your best defence against the cabal’s dark monetary arts.

-   discipline

-   patience

While we can help with the first of three in the form of one of the best daily trend following newsletters, the discipline and patience part must be yours to cultivate, and I can’t even begin to overstate their importance.

Alex Krainer's TrendCompass is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.

Subscribe

Alex Krainer – @NakedHedgie is the creator of I-System Trend Following and publisher of daily TrendCompass reports which cover over 200 financial and commodities markets. For US investors, we propose a trend-driven inflation/recession resilient portfolio covering a basket of 30+ financial and commodities markets. For more information, you can drop me a comment or an email to xela.reniark@gmail.com

[]

53

20

2

Share

Previous

Next

Discussion about this post

Comments

Restacks

[User's avatar]

[John D. Reddick's avatar]

John D. Reddick

May 12, 2023

Liked by Alex Krainer

Worst case I will become a squatter on a parcel of Bill Gates or Ted Turners farmland. The global population of parasitic billionaires should be massively reduced. They will realize all the people around them are employees, loyal only to a paycheck. Their assets will be up for grabs.

We are coming up to an event horizon. There is a good chance that the future for most of the world will be much brighter, or at least there is an opportunity for one. If I was living somewhere in Europe, I would consider emigrating somewhere safer.

I am 40% allocated to energy and mining stocks. The rest is liquid waiting for a big drop, then I will go all in.

All information and all markets are being massively manipulated. Government economic data is a joke.

The Empire is on the ground, flopping around and screaming. Putin and Xi need to put a bullet in its head.

Reply

Share

1 reply by Alex Krainer

[Christopher Young in Sweden's avatar]

Christopher Young in Sweden

May 12, 2023Edited

Liked by Alex Krainer

Just-a-Note. re: Alexander Hamilton

Yep. A real 100% bonefide bastard. Born & raised by a well-known group of 'slave traders' in the Caribbean. A Hamilton was 'groomed'(both in the classical and(!), modern-sense', with a parasitic-knee jerk reaction to the 'patrician class'. I could go on and on and in more detail among other things 'the Federalist Papers' and...'central banking' but, I'll stop now.

Yep. A real bastard... >>>

"Alexander Hamilton (January 11, 1755 or 1757[a] – July 12, 1804) was a Nevisian-born American military officer, statesman, and Founding Father who served as the first Secretary of Treasury from 1789 to 1795 during George Washington's presidency.

Born out of wedlock in Charlestown-Nevis, Hamilton was orphaned as a child and taken in by a prosperous merchant. He pursued his education in New York City where, despite his young age, he was...."

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_Hamilton

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charlestown,_Nevis

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Amsterdam

From what I've understood from research, A. Hamilton would fit-in perfectly with the *Village People* ;) among other places, Greenwich Village. "Swingin'...with/@the YMCA, as the UsA was a-startin'".

Yep. "Party-time Everyone...New Yaark New Yaark...New Amsterdam... New Amsterdam".

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greenwich_Village

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Village_People

Anyway, Thanks Alex! For those that can, I'd surely would definitely 'take Alex's Advice" regarding trends. At my age however, I find bein' multi-skilled in gardening/food production, able to fix/repair anything in my house and bein' a born 'sharpshooter' on most things-a-movin' both animate/inanimate is certainly a +++plus.

Wealth preservation is important for those younger than myself. Statically-speaking, at my age, I have a 50-50 chance of having another birthday. The 'Wisdom and Insight' I've achieved regarding *birthdays* is the following; "We All are born in our "Birthday Suit" and, at the mortician's, We All are in our 'birthday cloths/suits'. Before being 'drained of our last, existing, Life-Blood'. The Vampire-Class have takin' alot. But, in My case, they ain't got what that wanted. The most precious of All. *My Soul*.

...cheers and enjoy your friday/weekend Everyone. btw, Thanks for ..."puttin' up with Me" Alex.

Best Regards to All ;) :)

Reply

Share

1 reply by Alex Krainer

18 more comments...

Top

Latest

Discussions

No posts

Ready for more?

Subscribe

© 2026 Alex Krainer · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice

Start your SubstackGet the app

Substack is the home for great culture

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts
