Dillon Read & Co. Inc. & The Aristocracy of Stock Profits

-   X. The Clinton Administration: Progressives for For-Profit Prisons

-   XII. A Note on Protecting the Brand with Dirty Tricks

-   XIII. “You are Going to Prison” — 1996

-   XV. Dillon Read — Cashing Out on Cornell

-   XVII. Private Banking & the Profitable Liquidation of Every Place

XVII. Private Banking & the Profitable Liquidation of Every Place

In December of 1998, during the period when Dillon Read cashed out of Cornell Corrections and $59 billion went missing from HUD, Time Magazine published an article, “Just Hide Me the Money” by S.C. Gwynne with reporting by Adam Zagorin about the October 1998 Citicorp and Travelers merger and the world of offshore banking:

“Citibank’s private-banking unit holds more than $100 billion, which makes it about the same size as the entire bank was in 1982. These funds are in turn part of a $17 trillion global pool of money belonging to what bankers euphemistically call ‘high- net-worth-individuals’ — a pool that generates more than $150 billion a year in banking revenue. The numbers are impressive when you consider that except at a few sleepy British and Swiss institutions, the private-banking industry didn’t exist until the 1980s. Citibank predicted early this year that it would reach $1 trillion — that’s trillion with a T — in private-banking assets by the year 2010. And it faces some 4,000 competitors, from global dreadnoughts like Switzerland’s UBS [AUTHOR’S NOTE: the bank that bought Swiss Bank Corporation after Swiss Bank Corporation bought Dillon Read] to secretive banks in the tiny principality of Andorra to brokerages in Miami and accountancy firms in the Channel Islands.”

One of the offshore Dillon funds that invested in Cornell Corrections was Concord Partners Japan Limited. Its officers and directors, as listed in Exhibit D to Dillon’s April l997 13-D filing with the SEC, include an impressive array of Japanese business leaders and a non-person, Amerex, S.A, which lists a Coutts private bank address in the Bahamas as its address. This Dillon fund provides a link between the privatization of prisons, offshore funds and arguably the most prestigious private bank in the world. With the anticipation of profits as prisons stocks increased in value and went public, an all-too-familiar impersonal financial mechanism was now in place that created yet another incentive system with global reach, to drive the financial returns of investors up by driving down the Popsicle Index of faceless people and communities, far removed.

“Coutts has its headquarters at 440 Strand, London, with branches throughout the UK and the rest of the world. It is a private bank, which means its clients are by invitation only and have liquid assets in excess of £500,000 (AUTHOR’S NOTE: ap3; The bank is most famously known in the UK as the banker of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II. A Coutts Automated Teller Machine is installed in the basement of Buckingham Palace for use by the Royal Family… Coutts is known as the “Queen’s Bank” to many by virtue of it being reputed to be the bankers to the British Royal Family. Within the UK it is the largest Private Bank… Historically Coutts was an upper crust clearing bank to the landed gentry, but today they are seen as wealth managers willing to accept a wider class of clientele, including top sportsmen, lottery winners, football stars, businessmen, chief executives, and pop singers. You don’t have to be “Posh” to get in, but if you are, it helps.

“As well as being the Queen’s banker, Coutts is also known as a bank for the rich and famous of British society. In 1999 it became known that Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother had a £6 million [AUTHOR’S NOTE: approximately $10 million U.S. dollars] overdraft with the bank. Sarah, Duchess of York also had a large overdraft with the bank worth around £8 million [AUTHOR’S NOTE: approximately $13.8 million U.S. dollars], which was subsequently paid off.”

So, let’s say I am a customer of a private bank such as Coutts. Let’s say through Coutts I have an interest in an offshore fund with private prison investments. The more people who are rounded up and put into prison, the more valuable my investment becomes. If laws are passed for mandatory sentences, the more valuable my investment becomes. If politicians and political appointees push through more prison contracts for private companies, the more valuable my investments become. The more enforcement staff and arrests, the more valuable my investments become yet again.

I can of course borrow on the increased value of my portfolio without ever having to sell my investment, so I can watch my investment grow, receive distributions based on profitability and still enjoy the liquidity it provides. In fact, given the wonders of modern banking, I can turn my investment into ready cash with my ATM card, just as the personal staff for the British Royal Family presumably can through the Coutts ATM machine in the basement of Buckingham palace. Indeed, the transatlantic slave trade never dreamed of financial leverage, engineering and liquidity this pervasive, instantaneous or socially respectable.

But perhaps this should all make us pause for a moment and think. If the housing bubble turned our homes into ATM machines and in turn induced many of us to take on debt beyond our means, will the privatization of our prison system provide incentives for those profiting from such investments to support policies that make us even more of a target in the future?

Catherine’s letter to the NY Times about the perverse incentive systems and “tapeworm” economics of prison stocks before she knew that Dillon had banked and cashed out of Cornell:

“Thank you for Tim Egan’s article on prisons. It was an excellent summary of the growth in the US prison population over the last two decades. A welcome follow up might be an exploration on how the money works on prisons…” ^([89])

Recently, I called the Washington, D.C. criminal attorney who represented The Hamilton Securities Group with respect to the criminal investigation until 1998. I asked him if DOJ had managed to frame me, where would it have sent me to prison? He said the order would have gone from the court to the Federal Bureau of Prisons at DOJ, and that it would have had the discretion to send me to the prison of its choice. Hence, it was possible that I would have been incarcerated in a Cornell Corrections prison. How ironic would that have been? I now have the satisfaction of knowing that at the cost to me of millions in litigation and investigation expenses over a ten year period, I may have denied my old partners and colleagues at Dillon Read and their domestic and offshore investors another $11,000 in stock profit — approximately 44% (Dillon’s percent ownership) of the increased value in Cornell Corrections stock from another “bed” being occupied by yours truly.

Catherine Austin Fitts is president of Solari, Inc. and the managing member of Solari Investment Advisory Services, LLC. She served as Assistant Secretary of Housing / Federal Housing Commissioner at HUD in the first Bush Administration, and was the president and founder of The Hamilton Securities Group, Inc., a broker-dealer / investment bank and software developer.

Dillon Read & Co. Inc. & The Aristocracy of Stock Profits

-   X. The Clinton Administration: Progressives for For-Profit Prisons

-   XII. A Note on Protecting the Brand with Dirty Tricks

-   XIII. “You are Going to Prison” — 1996

-   XV. Dillon Read — Cashing Out on Cornell

-   XVII. Private Banking & the Profitable Liquidation of Every Place

Video: Dillon Read and the Aristocracy of Stock Profits

I made the decision to write “Dillon, Read & Co. Inc. and the Aristocracy of Stock Profits” in the middle of a vegetable garden in Montana during the summer of 2005. I had come to Montana to develop a venture capital model to support a healthier, fresher local food supply. If we want clean water, fresh food, sustainable infrastructure, and healthy communities, we are going to have to finance and govern these resources ourselves. We cannot invest in the stocks and bonds of large corporations, banks and governments that are harming our food, water, environment and all living things and then expect these resources to be available when we need them.

Surviving and thriving as a free people depends on creating and transacting with currencies and investments other than those printed and manipulated by Wall Street and Washington to the eventual end of our rights and assets.

What I found in Montana, however, was what I have found in communities all across America. We are so financially entangled in the federal government and large corporations and banks that we cannot see our complicity in everything we say we abhor. Our social networks are so interwoven with the institutional leadership — government officials, bankers, lawyers, professors, foundation heads, corporate executives, investors, fellow alumni — that we dare not hold our own families, friends, colleagues and neighbors accountable for our very real financial and operational complicity. While we hate “the system,” we keep honoring and supporting the people and institutions that are implementing the system when we interact and transact with them in our day-to-day lives. Enjoying the financial benefits and other perks that come from that intimate support ensures our continued complicity and contribution to fueling that which we say we hate.

Standing among the beautiful vegetables and flowers that Montana summer day, I was facing the futility of trying to craft investment solutions without some basic consensus about the economic tapeworm that is killing us and all living things — while we blindly feed the worm. In a world of economic warfare, we have to see the strategy behind each play in the game. We have to see the economic tapeworm and how it works parasitically in our lives. A tapeworm injects chemicals into a host that causes the host to crave what is good for the tapeworm. In America, we despair over our deterioration, but we crave the next injection of chemicals from the tapeworm.

With this in mind, I decided to write “Dillon Read & Co Inc. and the Aristocracy of Stock Profits” as a case study designed to help illuminate the deeper system. It details the story of two teams with two competing visions for America.

The first was a vision shared by my old firm on Wall Street — Dillon Read — and the Clinton Administration with the full support of a bipartisan Congress. In this vision, America’s aristocracy makes money and finances the building of a global empire one neighborhood at a time by ensnaring our youth in a pincer movement of drugs and prisons. Middle class support for these policies is created through a steady and growing stream of government funding and contracts for War on Drugs activities at federal, state and local levels. This consensus is made all the more powerful by the gush of growing debt and derivatives used to bubble the housing and mortgage markets, manipulate the stock and precious metals markets and finance trillions missing from the US government in the largest pump and dump in history — the pump and dump of the entire American economy. This is more than a process designed to wipe out the middle class. This is genocide — a much more subtle and lethal version than ever before perpetrated by the scoundrels of our history texts.

This case study provides a detailed example of the financial kickback machinery that makes the process go. It works something like this. A group of executives and investors start a company. Rather than build a business the old fashioned way, company profits are pumped up with government legislation, contracts, regulation, financing, subsidies and/or enforcement. This dramatically increases the value of the company’s financial equity. The company and its initial investors then sell their stock at a profit. Such profits replenish contributions made to the kind of politicians who can arrange such government benefits. Such profits also fund philanthropy to foundations and universities that have large endowments that invest along side the investors. These tax-exempt organizations provide graduates to staff positions in the game, intellectual justification to attract popular support and photo opportunities which bestow legitimacy and social stature. Personnel cycle through the management and boards of business, government and academia, as the real economy declines — the environment deteriorates, productivity falls, income and infrastructure decline — and government deficits grow.

The second vision was shared by my investment bank in Washington — The Hamilton Securities Group — and a small group of excellent government civil servants and appointees who believed in the power of education, hard work and a new partnership between people, land and technology. This vision would allow us to pay down public and private debt and create new business, infrastructure and equity. We believed that new times and new technologies called for a revival that would permit decentralized efforts to go to work on the hard challenges upon us — population, environment, resource management and the rapidly growing cultural gap between the most technologically proficient and the majority of people. We believed that private and public capital should flow to that which was most economically productive rather than be mixed in a complex cocktail of insider deals designed to hollow out the American economy and culture.

My hope is that “Dillon, Read & the Aristocracy of Stock Profits” will help you to see the game sufficiently to recognize the dividing line between two visions. One centralizes power and knowledge in a manner that tears down communities and infrastructure as it dominates wealth and shrinks freedom. The other diversifies power and knowledge to create new wealth through rebuilding infrastructure and communities and nourishing our natural resources in a way that reaffirms our ancient and deepest dream of freedom.

My hope is that as your powers grow to see the financial game and the true dividing lines, you will be better able to build networks of authentic people inventing authentic solutions to the real challenges we face. My hope is that you will no longer invite into your lives and work the people and organizations that sabotage real change. If enough of us come clean and hold true to the intention to transform the game, we invite in the magic that comes in dangerous times.

Yes, there is a better way and, yes, we can create it.

Catherine Austin Fitts is president of Solari, Inc. and the managing member of Solari Investment Advisory Services, LLC. She served as Assistant Secretary of Housing / Federal Housing Commissioner at HUD in the first Bush Administration, and was the president and founder of The Hamilton Securities Group, Inc., a broker-dealer / investment bank and software developer.

The Fast-Approaching Digital Control Grid: A Checklist of Trump Administration Actions to Date

[“A complete reengineering of the U.S. government through the digital systems is now possible at high speed.” ~ Catherine Austin Fitts, Feb. 6, 2025]

A digital control grid is an electronic network of digital telecommunication and information systems that allows individuals to be surveilled, tracked, and made subject to invasive controls applied to their financial transactions and resource use (such as electricity, food, water, transportation)—compromising, if not ending, all human rights and liberties. Control grids operate with significant data collection and AI to apply social credit systems that can be dictated on a highly centralized basis. A digital control grid ends financial freedom, replacing markets with technocracy—a system run by rules created and maintained centrally by “experts.”

Is the Trump Administration building a digital control grid? We provide the following checklist to assess the steps the Administration is (and is not) taking in a variety of areas to facilitate a rapid control grid build-out. We invite subscribers to post suggestions in the Comments section below.

Summary: An all-digital currency and monetary system is essential to institute a digital control grid.

There is support for legislation to create digital stablecoin infrastructure. Presumably, this can be used to create a programmable money system in both the U.S. and globally—in essence, a private CBDC.

The White House created a position to coordinate policy on AI and crypto.

The new SEC Commissioner is a crypto lobbyist; all indications point to a reversal of policies related to crypto.

There is $21T in undocumentable adjustments at the Department of Housing and Urban Development ($1T) and the Department of Defense ($20T) in the U.S. federal government as of fiscal 2015. To the best of our knowledge, the Administration has made no mention of any effort to identify where that money went and to get it back.

There has been no discussion of the artificial nature of the U.S. debt and the possibility of issuing currency directly from the U.S. Treasury without debt. With as much as 50% or more of monthly spending coming from debt borrowings, the U.S. government is deeply dependent on the New York Fed and Treasury borrowings through the 24 primary dealers.

-   The War for Bankocracy, a series by John Titus

The number of banks in America continues to fall.

-   Number of FDIC-insured commercial banks in the United States from 2000 to 2024 (Statista)

We know that the creation of small banks is one of the fastest ways to create real economic growth without inflation.

-   The Case for Building Wealth with Richard A. Werner

More community banks would be especially helpful to rebuild domestic capacity in the face of new tariff policies. The Trump Administration has indicated its intention to reengineer the FDIC. However, we do not yet know of any effort to encourage more community banks or the creation of State Banks.

-   The Trump Administration Is Targeting the FDIC, Putting Americans’ Financial Wellbeing at Risk

-   Organizing a Sovereign State Bank with Professor Richard A. Werner

Executive Orders and Actions: Strengthening U.S. Leadership in Digital Financial Technology

While banning CBDC, on the one hand, the Administration is aggressively working toward stablecoin adoption.

-   Strengthening American Leadership in Digital Financial Technology (White House, Jan. 23, 2025)

Summary: An all-digital monetary system with complete central control requires putting an end to the circulation of cash.

President Trump has directed the Treasury to stop minting new pennies.

-   Trump Orders U.S. Treasury to Stop Minting New Pennies, Citing Rising Cost of Producing the Coin

This order requires all-digital payments—no more checks and money orders.

-   Modernizing Payments to and from America’s Bank Account (White House, Mar. 25, 2025)

Summary: Secrecy in government finances, and missing money past and present, permit funding of the control grid and those who support it.

There has been no attempt to rescind this administrative policy, which essentially has taken U.S. financial statements dark; it was instituted by the first Trump Administration and Congress in October 2018.

-   FASAB Statement 56: Understanding New Government Financial Accounting Loopholes

There has been no effort to publish reliable financial statements or to move toward compliance with laws related to financial disclosure, nor has there been any discussion of the possibilities of providing easily accessible disclosure by place, such as disclosure of U.S. federal budgets and financials contiguous to Congressional districts.

-   Legal Series – U.S. Monetary and Fiscal Operations

-   Discussion of Community Wizard software in “Hamilton Securities Group,” Chapter XI in Dillon Read & Co. Inc. & the Aristocracy of Stock Profits

As the DOGE team determines and implements large layoffs and changes in systems, there is a real question as to whether it is “whiting out” institutional memory and documentation. There appears to be no effort to find the $1T missing from HUD, even as half of HUD employees are scheduled to be laid off. There have also been reports of layoffs in FOIA offices, including at FDA and CDC. To what extent are the DOGE team’s “efficiency efforts” being used to “white out” records about criminality, such as missing money or the poisoning of the citizenry?

While the Epstein files remain undisclosed, the White House and Cabinet appear to have multiple appointees who were intimate with Epstein, including the President and Secretary of Commerce Howard Lutnick, who was Epstein’s next-door neighbor in Manhattan as chairman of primary dealer Cantor Fitzgerald.

There is no disclosure regarding how many Cabinet and subcabinet positions have more than one citizenship and passport—and no disclosure regarding the President, the First Lady, and their family—or about the financial privileges that such arrangements may provide.

The White House Ethics officer was fired at the beginning of the Trump Administration, along with 18 Inspector Generals.

Summary: A highly precise digital ID system is essential to operate a digital control grid. The U.S. has been trying to implement this type of digital ID since the immediate passage of the Patriot Act after 9/11, with the current drive to do so happening through the REAL ID system operated through the states.

Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem is aggressively promoting the REAL ID with a misleading campaign that is trying to persuade people that they will not be able to fly in the United States without a REAL ID. This is not correct.

-   Yes! You Can Fly – Without a Real ID

Signs at airports and driver’s license bureaus inaccurately maintain that, starting May 7, 2025, an unconstitutional REAL ID in the works since 2005 is required to fly; however, the REAL ID Act only requires a federal ID (among other federal IDs, a passport qualifies). A number of states have mandated REAL ID driver’s licenses, and many others make acquiring a non-REAL ID difficult. REAL ID regulations allow federal agencies to require REAL ID for entry into federal buildings or take other agency-relevant actions involving REAL ID. Many expect that biometric features will be added to the REAL ID and that the REAL ID may be used to institute a social credit score or system to limit or condition receipt of federal benefits on REAL ID use.

TSA continues to aggressively promote biometrics with travelers who fly to the United States; many do not know they can opt out, and reports vary as to whether opting out is even still possible at some airports. TSA procedures are making it difficult to fly without entering biometric information.

A federal regulatory agency has implemented biometrics for commercial motor vehicle applications.

-   Trucker ID Verification with Idemia Biometrics Launched by US Regulator

Summary: To build a digital control grid, digital IDs must link with programmable money and interoperable systems across multiple platforms (banks, credit cards, online payment systems), which can be integrated with social credit and surveillance systems. The data capacity required for an all-digital monetary system combined with programmable money and a social credit system is significant, as are the related energy demands.

The Stargate initiative involves the building out of data centers sufficient to support a complete control grid and all-digital monetary system.

The Stargate proposal for personalized mRNA “vaccines” for cancer (and everything else) indicates a plan to roll out the injection program sufficient to implement the Internet of Bodies and continue to lower life expectancy. Stargate funding also helps support the ongoing global rollout of “mega” vaccine factories. It is not clear how Musk’s desire through Neuralink to insert mesh networks inside human brains fits in, as it appears that injections can get the system most if not all of the way to where it wants to go—and it is much easier to market injections that are “good” for you.

Based on detailed reporting by WIRED magazine, it appears that significant federal data are being privatized on the “just do it” method, presumably through Musk’s Xai and its partnership with Palantir. There is also a push for digitizing federal systems and records and updating systems. DOGE is focusing on agencies that handle high-quality payment data for most or all Americans, including Social Security, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and Treasury. These are some of the agencies whose data would be most appropriate for implementing programmable money with a social credit system.

DOGE’s focus on Social Security and the IRS is important. In a recent review of American legal history from the 1871 “Act to Provide a Government for the District of Columbia” forward, Josh Stylman had some interesting comments on these two agencies:

“What can be verified in the historical record is that during Wilson’s administration, several mechanisms were indeed established that fundamentally altered the relationship between citizens and government—including the Federal Reserve System, income taxation, and later the Social Security system with its universal numerical identification. These systems, while presented as public benefits, effectively created trackable financial identities that constitutional scholars like Edwin Vieira Jr. have analyzed as potential instruments of financial monitoring and control. As Vieira argues, these mechanisms transformed the citizen-state relationship into one increasingly mediated through financial institutions rather than direct constitutional protections.”

The Administration has denied the rumored closing of Social Security satellite offices, but staff members say planned office closures, staffing and service cuts, and policy changes at the Social Security Administration have caused “complete, utter chaos” and are threatening to send the agency into a “death spiral.” Recorded phone messages to those who call for help encourage online problem-solving, where it is necessary to set up an ID-me account with an offshore entity.

DOGE leader Elon Musk initially announced that the DOGE goal was to cut $2 trillion in current expenditures from federal spending. DOGE later reduced that goal to $1 trillion. During the second week of April, Musk provided a Cabinet briefing indicating that DOGE expected to reduce 2025 expenditures by $150 billion, which is significantly less than expected increases in military and interest expenses. Was the privatization of data and systems the priority?

Musk has also donated Starlink Wi-Fi to the White House, which begs the question: Who has access to confidential White House data and conversations?

The reduction in civil service employment is expected to increase control of information and payment systems by private parties and corporate contractors, resulting in increased control of fiscal policy by central bankers (as opposed to Congress). Reducing the membership and powers of public unions can also make implementation of unconstitutional policies much easier.

The Trump Administration is requiring disclosure on payments on the U.S.-Mexico border.

-   Feds to Collect Personal Info of People Exchanging, Sending Money from U.S.-Mexico Border

Executive Orders and Actions: America’s Bank Account; Information Silos; AI Leadership

Three executive orders centralize federal data and payment verification into Treasury; centralize federal databases and systems integration; and promote “decisive” action to retain global AI leadership.

-   Protecting America’s Bank Account against Fraud, Waste, and Abuse (Mar. 25, 2025)

-   Stopping Waste, Fraud, and Abuse by Eliminating Information Silos (Mar. 20, 2025)

-   Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence (Jan. 23, 2025)

Summary: During the first Trump Administration, the president appointed a pharmaceutical executive who was an expert in brain-machine interface to run Operation Warp Speed. Around the same time, the chief science officer at Moderna described the mRNA technology in the Covid injections as the installation of an “operating system” in the human body. Our interest in the Internet of Bodies as a potentially integral part of the control grid and surveillance has grown ever since.

-   Center for Internet of Bodies: Where Connectivity, Security, and Intelligence Meets Human Body to Transform Lives

It should be noted that the Administration continues to promote the Covid mRNA injections.

-   Staying Up to Date with COVID-19 Vaccines (published as of Apr. 13, 2025, while dated Jan. 7, 2025)

At his confirmation hearing, HHS Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. stated,

“I’ll just say about Operation Warp Speed, it was an extraordinary accomplishment, [it] showed demonstration of leadership by President Trump.”

Summary: The push is on to get the entire population online so that they can interact in an all-digital system, accessible to surveillance, AI, and transaction control.

-   US Senate Panel Advances Trump Nominee to Oversee $42-Billion Government Internet Fund

The U.S. Postal Service has filed notice with the Postal Regulatory Commission to raise prices by approximately 7.5%, effective July 13, 2025. If approved, the price of a First-Class Mail Forever stamp would increase from $0.73 to $0.78, further crippling efforts to communicate non-digitally.

Summary: Before the presidential election, now-Secretary of Commerce Howard Lutnick described U.S. land and mineral resources as a “balance sheet” worth an estimated $500T.

-   Plunder Capitalism: Is the Bitcoin Strategic Reserve Trial Balloon the Next Step in the Great American Land Grab?

The Department of the Interior and HUD have announced a task force to explore housing development on Federal lands.

-   Secretary Burgum, HUD Secretary Turner Announce Joint Task Force to Reduce Housing Costs and Open Access to Underutilized Federal Lands Suitable for Residential Development (Mar. 17, 2025)

HUD Secretary Turner has experience with Opportunity Zones—place-based investment zones that shelter investors from capital gains taxes if they reinvest in these state-designated vehicles.

-   Opportunity Zones: Prototyping Community Technocracy with Patrick Wood

Executive Orders and Actions: Crypto Asset Forfeiture; Creation of Sovereign Wealth Fund

Asset Forfeiture Fund included in the push to increase federal crypto holdings. The announcement raised concerns about related insider trading.

-   Establishment of the Strategic Bitcoin Strategic Reserve and United States Digital Asset Stockpile (Mar. 6, 2025)

-   Ranking Member Connolly Urges Treasury to Cease Plans to Establish Strategic Cryptocurrency Reserve, Trump’s New Get Rick Quick Scheme

-   A Plan for Establishing a United States Sovereign Wealth Fund (Feb. 3, 2025)

Summary: An all-digital control grid and AI use extraordinary amounts of energy. One article in Bloomberg predicted that Texas would need 30 new nuclear power plants to support data centers by 2030.

-   Texas Needs Equivalent of 30 Reactors to Meet Data Center Power Demand

President Trump’s “Drill, baby, drill” energy policy is focused on significantly increasing domestic energy resources.

Big Tech has been open about its desire for additional sources of energy.

-   Big Tech Wants to Become an Independent Nuclear Power

-   Unleashing Alaska’s Extraordinary Resource Potential (Jan. 20, 2025)

-   Declaring a National Energy Emergency (Jan. 20, 2025)

Summary: Despite the early emphasis on cutting expenditures, the Administration is taking numerous steps to increase expenditures. It supported the Continuing Resolution, which extended the Biden spending plan.

The Tax Policy Institute estimates that the Trump tariffs will generate approximately $3.3T from 2026 to 2035, including an additional $190 billion in 2025. However, this will be more than offset by the Trump tax cuts:

“The Tax Policy Center estimates extending the TCJA [2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act] would add $4.4 trillion to the national debt over the next decade. Interest on the additional debt would cost another $800 billion. Tax-free tips would cost at least $6.5 billion in 2025 alone, while exempting Social Security benefits from tax would reduce federal revenues by $1.5 trillion over a decade.

The Senate is considering a budget framework that would cut taxes by about $5.3 trillion. If not offset by tariffs or other tax increases, or by substantial cuts in federal spending, the Senate fiscal plan would increase the national debt to 134 percent of Gross Domestic Product in a decade.”

-   Trump’s Tariffs Will Raise Much Less Than the White House Says, TPC Finds

The Administration has hoped that the tariff policy would help lower interest rates, lowering the cost of refinancing maturing Treasury debt and issuing more debt as well. However, the initial response has been to raise the yields on Treasury bonds.

In the meantime, the Secretary of Defense has indicated that the military budget needs to be increased from its current level in the Continuing Resolution of $893 billion for 2025 to an annual $1 trillion.

Summary: Independent of the Administration, the Fed continues to roll out its FedNow “instant payments” system.

The military has been deployed on the southern border, with heightened controls on the northern border. What increased federal border and port control will be needed to enforce tariffs? There are increasing signs of tech being used to control the border.

-   Federal Judge Allows Trump to Require Illegal Aliens to Register in Online Database or Face Prison Time, Fines

-   Trump Can Solve Illegal Immigration Crisis by Requiring Employers use E-Verify

-   What Military Assets Has Trump Deployed to the US Southern Border? Troops, Warships, Spy Planes, and More

-   Colombia and U.S. Sign Biometrics Deal on Migration

Police departments in various cities have instituted “Ring” doorbell registries for local residents that allow the police to surveil “connected” neighborhoods. In the case of the Cincinnati program (powered by Axon Fusus), camera registration offers location details for investigators to request footage. Additionally, the Cincinnati Police Department (CPD) is offering residents and businesses the opportunity to upgrade their video systems to include live video feeds. Installation of a small CORE device enables sharing of live footage with CPD “during emergencies to improve police response times.” The live feed can be triggered using a smartphone app or manual button.

-   Real-Time Operations Platform: A Unified Public Safety Ecosystem for Connected Communities

The Administration is citing election fraud as an excuse to push for digital IDs. The proposed Safeguard American Voter Eligibility (SAVE) Act would amend the National Voter Registration Act to require Americans seeking to register or re-register to vote to present a REAL ID-compliant ID proving U.S. citizenship. People whose federal ID names (e.g., on their passports) do not match their birth certificates would be required to provide proof of name change or a marriage certificate.

-   Support H.R. 55 to Repeal the National Voter Registration Act

Cybercrime, fraud, and scams continue to escalate to alarming levels. The Administration is discussing downsizing or shutting down the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and disbanding the cybercrime task force at the SEC. Meanwhile, drug cartels continue to operate with impunity throughout the U.S.

The targeting of selected populations and related land grabs continue.

The spraying of toxic materials, impacting all living things, includes Internet of Bodies nanoparticles.

Do you have a similar critique of Mark Carney so Canadians can be better informed?

-   Missing Money Update: Thrift Savings Fund—Treasury Account 026×6153

-   FASAB Standard 56 and the Authority of the Director of National Intelligence to Waive SEC Financial Reporting

-   Space: The New Frontier For The Central Control Grid

-   Legal Series – US Monetary and Fiscal Operations

-   The Appropriations Clause: A History of the Constitution’s (As of Yet) Underused Clause.

-   The U.S. Statutes Creating Modern Constitutional Financial Management and Reporting Requirements and the Government’s Failure to Follow Them

-   The Black Budget: The Crossroads of (Un)Constitutional Appropriations and Reporting

-   FASAB Statement 56: Understanding New Government Financial Accounting Loopholes

-   The History and Organization of the Federal Reserve: The What and Why of the United States’ Most Powerful Banking Organization

-   FASAB Standard 56 and the Authority of the Director of National Intelligence to Waive SEC Financial Reporting

-   Should We Care about Secrecy in Financial Reporting?

-   Reports on “Unsupported Journal Voucher Adjustments” for DOD & HUD

-   Missing Money: A Personal History – 1989 to 2019

Watch the complete Video HERE or go to our Video page for more on The Missing Money

“No money shall be drawn from the treasury, but in consequence of appropriations made by law; and a regular statement and account of receipts and expenditures of all public money shall be published from time to time.” ~ Article I, Section 9, Clause 7, U.S. Constitution

$21 Trillion dollars is missing from the U.S. government. That is $65,000 per person—as much as the national debt!

What’s going on? Where is the money? How could this happen? How much has really gone missing? What would happen if a corporation failed to pass an audit like this? Or a taxpayer?

This means the Fed and their member banks are transacting government money outside the law. So are the corporate contractors that run the payment systems. So are the Wall Street firms who are selling government securities without full disclosure. Would your banks continue to handle your bank account if you behaved like this? Would your investors continue to buy your securities if you behaved like this? Would your accountant be silent?

This is the reason that there is such a strong push to change or tear up the U.S. Constitution. This is why members of the establishment say the Constitution is “old,” “outdated!” This is why there is such a push for gun control. Don’t buy it! We can use the Constitution to get our money and our government back. It is time to enforce the U.S. Constitution.

The Solari Report has been covering the missing money since 2000 when Catherine Austin Fitts began to to warn Americans and global investors about mortgage fraud at the U.S. Department of Housing and Development (HUD), and the engineering of the housing bubble that led to trillions more dollars in bailouts and funds missing from the U.S. government starting in fiscal 1998.

“[T]he powers of financial capitalism had another far-reaching aim,  nothing less than to create a world system of financial control in private hands able to dominate the political system of each country  and the economy of the world as a whole. This system was to be  controlled in a feudalist fashion by the central banks of the world  acting in concert, by secret agreements arrived at in frequent  private meetings and conferences. The apex of the system was to  be the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland, a private bank owned by and controlled by the world’s central banks  which were themselves private corporations.” ~ Carroll Quigley, 1974

-   Missing Money Update: Thrift Savings Fund—Treasury Account 026×6153

-   FASAB Standard 56 and the Authority of the Director of National Intelligence to Waive SEC Financial Reporting

-   Space: The New Frontier For The Central Control Grid

-   Legal Series – US Monetary and Fiscal Operations

-   The Appropriations Clause: A History of the Constitution’s (As of Yet) Underused Clause.

-   The U.S. Statutes Creating Modern Constitutional Financial Management and Reporting Requirements and the Government’s Failure to Follow Them

-   The Black Budget: The Crossroads of (Un)Constitutional Appropriations and Reporting

-   FASAB Statement 56: Understanding New Government Financial Accounting Loopholes

-   The History and Organization of the Federal Reserve: The What and Why of the United States’ Most Powerful Banking Organization

-   FASAB Standard 56 and the Authority of the Director of National Intelligence to Waive SEC Financial Reporting

-   Should We Care about Secrecy in Financial Reporting?

-   Reports on “Unsupported Journal Voucher Adjustments” for DOD & HUD

-   Missing Money: A Personal History – 1989 to 2019
