Chapter 1: The Control Grid
Katherine Austin Fitz, thank you for doing this.
Hucker, thank you for doing this. The first time we uh did an interview over a year ago, different worlds completely.
And I remember thinking, "Wow, I've really spoken to anyone who thinks in such big terms." I mean, that is a compliment. I wonder if this is all
true. Um I think time has proven you right. had a couple of meals in the subsequent months and um so I'm just I
just want to say I think you're really wise and I'm grateful to have you.
So I want you to know it was only 10 months ago but it seems like a long long time man. Um time is flying.
Yeah. I meet people in airports all the time are like I used to think I was a conspiracy theorist but now [laughter] I you know but it's kind of a variety of that. Um but last time we had lunch a
couple months ago you were telling me about and I wish we had this on tape.
Maybe we can recreate it here about the control grid, a concept that you had explained when we last did an interview
um and how it was, as you said at lunch, snapping into place. Can you can you just for people who haven't seen your
previous uh talk, explain what the control grid is, what it looks like, and what it means?
So the control grid is a process or an infrastructure that allows digital technology to be used to assert
phenomenal surveillance and control of people. And at the very heart of it is what I call programmable money. So it's money that is no longer just a currency.
It's money that comes with a set of rules that can be surveiled and forced.
So imagine back in the pandemic if if your money if I said okay you've got to lock down and your money won't work if you leave your house you can't buy gas
in your car because your money is programmed with AI and software to enforce a whole set of centralized rules
and and programmable money allows the bankers who've been running monetary policy to now control fiscal policy and
essentially replace legislatures and executive branch by making and enforcing ing the rules through the money. Now
that requires a a large infrastructure of surveillance. So you need digital IDs and then you need the hardware locally
and globally to to do the surveillance and implementation. So for example, if you look at the local hardware and now
people are seeing it, you know, now that it's material, they're beginning to see it snap into place. So, I don't know if you know of flock cameras, but there are
many communities across the United States that are entering into contracts paid by the taxpayers to put up cameras
all around their neighborhood that track license plates and keep that data and share it with a variety of people. or you have uh the FCC is trying to
overrule local controls on cell towers so they can literally put cell towers every 400 to 700 ft so that they can
have the kind of invasive surveillance you need or you have satellites now that can literally beam in Wi-Fi so that whether you have Wi-Fi in your home or
not they can start to track you and all those systems come put you in what I call the panopticon so we saw in the
Middle East with the first war with Iran. We saw 11 leaders out of 12 sort of top leaders in science and and
government assassinated because they're literally tracking everyone and they they can identify them and track them
and then you have invisible weaponry that can then take them out or you know can identify missile strikes. So
may I ask you about so you're talking about the 12-day war against Iran in June of 2025.
We were led to believe just as newspaper readers or news consumers that those 11 Iranian officials were targeted with human intelligence.
You know that Israel had spies inside of Iran, but you're saying that was done digitally.
That's probably I would assume that that's probably true because you always want to get human confirmation of what the systems are telling you. It's always
better if you have both. But um but we are now moving into uh building out the
kind of surveillance systems um that can literally track, identify and integrate with not only our existing
weaponry but ultimately autonomous weaponry. So so anyway, so let me step back. You've got three parts to the
control grid. Um, one is the local hardware and infrastructure and that includes the data centers because if you
the data I thought those were for AI they are because if you look at what it takes to apply the equivalent of a social credit system to people's money.
So the social credit system I apply to you is different than the one I apply to me. And if you look at the data I need to track you and test whether or not
you're following the rules I've given you and enforce those rules, it's an explosive amount of data, particularly because you're looking not just at financial control, but spatial control.
So what is AI good at, Tucker? AI is very spatial control, movement control.
Yeah. So turn off the car. So Congressman Massie is trying to kill the kill switch in your car. That's because spatial control means I can turn off
your car or I can set it so your money won't work more than a mile from your home or a 15inute city. So you literally
you're not allowed to leave your 15-minute city and your transportation and your money won't work outside of that area. So So let me step back. So So
what is AI good at? AI is very good at tracking things that can be expressed mathematically and financial
transactions and spatial movement can be expressed mathematically. And so what the AI centers are for primarily is to
build that digital control grid and to manage that data. So and now it can be used for many other purposes too. So it's not just going to be used for
control. But to me that's the primary purpose and that if you look at the cameras, if you look at the cell towers, if you look at the satellites and then
the AI, the data centers, those are all component pieces of the local hardware.
So there are three sort of pillars that I track. One is the programmable money and that's what we at Solaria are trying
to stop. Uh the second is the digital ID because you need a global you need digital ID systems that are
interoperable globally and then the local hardware and those are sort of the three pillars and what's interesting is
there's phenomenal development of all three. We have a commentary at Ceri where we track it's called the fast
approaching digital control grid and every week we update all the things that are being done to build those three pillars and have them integrate with
each other and ever since the inauguration it's been moving very very quickly. Now it's both sides of the uni
party. They come at it in different ways and they do different things. But but this is, you know, ultimately what this is doing is this is going to a point
where the central bankers, whether they do it with a central bank digital currency or private stable coins and
asset tokens, are setting the world up so that they can control your financial transactions literally in real time with
the equivalent of a social credit system.
Chapter 2: How Biometrics Will Be Used to Control You
I have so many questions. Um what I I've probably been in six or seven eight countries in the last month
and I think in every single country I had biometrics taken, right?
Either fingerprint or facial recognition, right?
What role do biometrics play in the control grid?
That's part of the digital ID system and and and that facilitates the surveillance. And it's interesting. So
we do a lot to promote cash because I think there are many things we can do to slow down or stop the digital control system. But one of it is in by embracing
analog and keeping analog uh analog alive because to go to a really serious programmable money you need um you need
an old all digital financial system. So, we do a lot with cash, but people will tell you if you go to Walmart, you leave
your your phone in the car and you use cash. You come out having made a purchase and the next thing you know,
the next day on your phone, you get a text from the company of the product you bought at Walmart. So, they were able to identify you. It's because of the
biometrics. They have your facial recognition.
Chapter 3: Why Banks Don't Want You to Use Cash
I had a crazy experience with cash. I thought of you right before Christmas. I wanted to pay employees a bonus in cash,
which I always do. And so I asked my wife to go to the bank. She did a Wells Fargo branch not far from our house. I want to take out this amount. Pretty
large amount, but not crazy, right? And they said, "No, we can't give you the money." And why? Because we think that
you are being scammed, that there's probably someone outside with a gun demanding that you withdraw cash. And she's like, "What? No." So she called
me. Anyway, I finally went into the bank and got upset.
It wasn't their fault. They were being told, I think, by federal regulators not to give me cash. And I said, "I thought the point of a bank was to hold my money. You loan it out in interest. I
get less interest from you, so you make the money, but my money is safe, but I get it when I want cuz I made it at my job." And they're like, "We're so sorry.
We're so sorry." But they they wouldn't give me the cash. Took two weeks to get the cash. What is that?
It's called nudging. Do you know what nudging is? No. Oh, there's a whole science of nudging.
So if you're the central bankers and you want to take cash down to zero, what you do is you create lots of different kinds
of rules and regulations that nudge people in that direction. Okay? So that's one of the things that's
happening and you use these things as an excuse. Now there's something else happening.
So that's not my imagination. That's part of a strategy to get me not to part of what was happening was nudging.
Now if you look at the person who implemented that, they're getting a rule. They're just doing their job. And one of the reasons they're getting the rule and one of the things they use to
do the nudging with is you if you look at the amount of cyber crime and financial fraud that's happening that is causing people to go down and get cash.
It's real and the banks are losing a great deal of money on it and it's a serious problem particularly because if
you look at the technology used to using it to be implemented you know it's I I believe they're using neuro warfare so
they get these people very addicted online and they get them doing sort of crazy financial things. Um, I was trying to wire I was in the Netherlands. I was
trying to wire €5,000 to one of the people who works for me and my bank
stopped it because they felt that I was a victim of a romance crime. [laughter] A romance crime?
A romance crime? I said, "No, I sure this person writes my loving art column.
[laughter] It's not a ro I mean there's a romance with art here, but it's not with each other." [laughter]
Well, 2026 is likely to be the year that some companies will find patriotism.
They'll discover it. During the Biden years, corporate America thought hating our country was the thing to do. So, they did it. Now, we're in a new era.
They are coming back to reality. It's not real, though. It's a trick. They don't mean it at all. Black Rifle means it. And they've been doing it since day
one. They're not just discovering patriotism. They were founded on the premise. As this country celebrates 250 years of existence, Black Rifle is
brewing bold American roasted beans built for people who believe in the values that made America great. So kick off 2026 with roast made for patriots,
not spectators. And for the new year, Black Rifle is launching cold brew coffee cans in just black and vanilla.
Powerful, smooth, and made in America.
Want something even more explosive? Try Grape X or Tiger Strike. Woo! their new zero sugar energy drinks with 200 mg of
caffeine. That's about half the output of a nuclear power plant. But it's clean energy for Americans who mean business.
Visit blackrifle.com/tucker.
Use the code Tucker for 30% off or find black rifle at Walmart, Target, Kroger, wherever great products are sold. Black
Rifle Coffee, veteran founded, America roasted. It's America's coffee. So the okay but you would think that banks
beset by cyber crime would want to encourage the use of cash.
Uh so you know the banks are in a movement for
more and more central control. Again, the financial system for 20 plus years has been steadily moving in all
different layers from regulatory to these kinds of things from a world where the bankers control monetary policy to a
world where they control fiscal policy and and that's all the nudging is all part of moving.
Can you explain the difference for those of us who are not economically fluid?
Okay. So, so since 1913, the United States has had a governmental structure where the central bank, the
Federal Reserve, which is the board of governors in Washington and the 12 central banks manage monetary policy.
So, they basically uh working with the banks run the financial transactions.
The New York Fed runs the governmental accounts. They control the government bank accounts and their policies of Fed
funds, interest rate and money onto the reserve tracks affects the money supply and the you know and basically the money supply and how how the money works.
Okay. So it's more complicated than that because they have lots of regulatory functions but the people vote for their representatives. So whether it's the
state house or the congress, they vote for elected representatives from their jurisdiction and area and those people
decide fiscal policy which is what taxes do we collect, what tariffs do we collect, what bonds do we sell and raise money and how does that money get spent.
So my representatives, your representatives are determining a fiscal policy and the bankers are determining a monetary policy and it's a balance of
power between the people and the bankers. Now with the digital control grid and and programmable money, the
bankers can assert control of fiscal policy and they can set they they can just decide what the taxes are and take
them out of your account and they can essentially determine the rules of how it all gets spent. And so it's a very,
you know, it's sort of a financial coup d'eta that over time, you know, they want to assert complete control of
fiscal and monetary policy and and essentially the legislators will go to being sort of showand tell or, you know, go out of business.
We're we're moving quickly in that direction where the legislators in every country are becoming less powerful, in
many cases irrelevant. So, here's my theory, though. If you go back to 9/11 and when Wesley Clark said, "We're going
Chapter 4: What Role Does the Central Bank Play in War?
to we're going to invade seven countries in 5 years," what you were talking about were the countries where those central
banks were not on board to do programmable money and their governance structures were not on board with
essentially, you know, I because of Epstein, I'll call it the rockfeller uh Ross Shield model. um there was an
effort to say, "Okay, we're going to basically assert control of the central banks in those countries." That's my interpretation. And I think one of the
reasons we're seeing so much tension around Iran is because Iran right now is the big leakage in the system.
How?
So, wait, it's not about their nukes.
No. So, well, you know, Iran's central bank counts. One of the reasons it counts is because their oil and energy is very important, including for China.
Yeah.
Um and that's very important in the brick system. What the brick system is trying to do is to create independent payment systems. But if you're going to
come out with programmable money with digital IDs that are interoperable globally and programmable money that
that controls in each jurisdiction centrally, you can't afford leakage. And so you've got way too much leakage in
the system to proceed with what they're trying to do. And Iran is and the brick nations are a sticking point. And
certainly Iran's oil, you know, feeding China gives China greater independence.
So you think that one of the motives behind toppling all these governments was the creation of the control grid we're talking about now?
Right. So if you go back, so you had the wonderful Richard Warner on your show and Richard has a book called The
Princes of Vienn, which is about the sort of effort to over to take over the the Japanese central bank. And I think what you're
looking at, I think part of the state of play with both Russia and Iran is how are you going to make sure that those
central banks are entirely in the system? So yeah, that was an amazing interview.
Um, and he told the story about writing this book on the Japanese central bank.
I can't imagine a more obscure topic from my non-economically minded standpoint. It' be like writing a book on postcards from the Faulland Islands.
It's like, okay, a book on the Japanese Central Bank. Um, and he said, "Well, actually, they suppressed it. I couldn't get it published in the United States,
and you can't get a copy." And that's like checkable. So, I checked it. You can't get a copy of that book. It's really hard.
You can I think you can order from his publisher right now.
Okay. Right. But I mean that like why would someone try to suppress?
Because it shows you the truth. It takes you right into the secret governance system and it shows you the me the the
primary mechanism by which they implement policy.
Yeah. Well, it's always the things you're not allowed to say are probably the important things, right? I mean, whenever they penalize you for having a thought, you're probably on the right
track. Well, it's it's it's one of the critical train tracks of control. So, it's what I call the third rail. So, I
used to finance transit systems and train systems. So, uh you know, a lot of these systems have two tracks that the
wheels go on and then they have a third rail that the power line runs on and you get a tin trap that flips over and and
sucks the energy from the third rail. So a lot of the things that really operate the third rail are very invisible and
and for example in central banking to listen to talk about tier one and tier 2 and tier three capital at the BIS and the banks there's nothing more boring.
It's designed to absolutely I just fell asleep in the middle of that sentence. [laughter] Exactly. Exactly. Right. Right.
Is [clears throat] it boring by design?
I you know it the way you're taught to talk about it is boring by design you
know and but but the it's like the mechanisms of the legal system. If you look at the mechanisms of civil
procedure or criminal procedure you know it can and you get into the weeds on it.
It can be very boring unless you understand the application and and and that can make it very interesting. But
but the capital most people don't understand the capital, you know, sort of regulatory system and yeah, it can get very very boring.
It's been a lot of noise in the news recently, but none of it matters if you can't hear it. There's no shame in this.
Millions of people get deafer every year. Some we know well, but your friends, our friends at Audient can help. For years, the experts made hearing aids cost thousands of dollars.
They forced you to get a prescription, see a doctor, jump through all these hoops just to hear your grandkids talk, or have a conversation in a restaurant.
Why? Because they made money. That's why over 460 million people worldwide have hearing loss. Yet 80% do not have
hearing aids. Cuz who'd want to deal with that? So, it's a crisis and it's being ignored. And that's why Audian is the answer. It offers FDA compliant
hearing aids for as low as 98 bucks. No prescription, no doctor's visit. Over a million and a half Americans already
using them to regain clarity in their lives, to regain hearing. You can find them at nearly 10,000 retailers nationwide, including Walmart and
Walgreens. Audience doing what the system should have done all along, making essential health care affordable for everyone. Go to tiertucker.com.
That's h a rtucker.com or call 1 800453-2916 to learn more about how Audient can help
you or someone you love hear better. So, back to programmable digital currency of all the features that you've described
Chapter 5: Central Bank Digital Currency
so far of the control grid. That's the one that has not been fully implemented. Would that be fair to say?
So, so let me describe. Yeah. Is not at all. And it's important to be talking about this now because if imagine a
tsunami approaching us, there is a tsunami approaching us right now. If you look at the the traditional financial system, we're talking about hundreds of
trillions of dollars. Stocks, bonds, global stocks and bonds market. The crypto market or or money is issued on a
distributed ledger is tiny. So maybe it's $4 trillion compared to 250 trillion just counting stocks and bonds.
And then we have the currency market which is bigger. So most people in the traditional financial system look at the distributed ledger system and say you know it's tiny it's tokens.
Last year we passed the genius act. So have you heard of the genius act? I have. Yeah.
Okay. So so people there's quite a bitter quite a bitter fight over it too.
There's a there's a there was a bitter fight. The big bitter fight right now is over the clarity act. So the Genius Act
created a regulatory framework for stable coins and I'll I'll explain stable coins in a second. The Clarity Act was passed in the House last year.
Its complement in the Senate is called it's a discussion draft called the Responsible Financial Innovation Act.
And so the final act's name I I'll call it the Clarity Act, but I don't know which it will be.
um the Senate and the House have not agreed and that has become a very bitter fight and I can explain what that's about. The reason the Genius Act and the
Clarity Act are are very very important is um there has been a push to say we don't want central bank digital currency
because we don't want the central banks putting the banks out of business and controlling centrally. What has happened though is now they're doing a form of
private, think of it as private CBDC, stable coins and digital assets and tokens that can essentially implement
the same social credit and control system but through private issuers. So, so let me turn to stable coins for a second because the Genius Act has
passed. They're working on regulations that'll come out at the end of this year, the beginning of next year.
If a stable coin is issued, it's a crypto issued on a distributive ledger and it's basically the money that is
received to buy the stable coin is reinvested in either treasury bills that are 93 days or shorter in maturity or
highquality bank deposits. So cash. So, so basically it's 100% collateralized.
So when you have a stable coin, it's like having a little treasury bill. Okay? A dollar of treasury bill. Okay?
So think of yourself as using a treasury bill.
So it's not so different from US currency.
No, no. It it's certainly in terms of value. And the reason you call it a stable coin is you're hoping um you know
theoretically a stable coin could be done in other currencies as well, but you're hoping that a dollar stable coin will not be volatile in price the way
many cryptos are volatile in price. So it's it's designed so the price is stable. Okay. So, so one of the hopes
and one of the reasons that we're issuing stable coins is as foreign purchases of treasuries diminish, we're
hoping that you can put out stable coins worldwide and attract retail money into the treasury market. So, the
wholesale market is rejecting you. And so, now through the mobile payment systems, you can put out stable coins.
So, it's another way of propping up US debt.
It's another way of preserving US dominance, dollar dominance. Okay? and and but the danger of course is there
are two dangers. One is if everyone in your town in Maine pulls their money
out of the bank and puts it on their mobile payment stable coin, all the loan market and the credit creation market in
your town is going to collapse, right? Because they're leaving your local economy, right?
And going into the Treasury market to finance the Feds. So what Amazon did to retailers in towns, stablecoin could do
to banks in towns, to community banks and credit unions.
Now they can also issue stable coins, but again that money is going to go into the treasury market rather than than you
know multiply on Main Street. There's been a real quiet war over the last 20, 30 years because the federal regulators
have pushed the community banks and credit unions to not make loans on Main Street, but put their money in the investment portfolio where they do buy
treasuries. [laughter] Okay? And this is all part of getting your local economy more and more dependent on federal money.
I'm seeing this all to there only like four trends in the modern world and there this is one of them. power money centralized go to the national capital
away from the provinces. It's like it's happening everywhere.
Well, but here's the thing, and this is the little secret to real solutions. If if you look at the last 50 years or 70
years since World War II, every effort has been made through taxes or credit or various financial mechanisms to get all
the money to go into central and come back down.
Right. And and now if you go into most communities, so America's 3,100 counties, most counties, 40 or 50% of
the income in that county is coming through, you know, it goes up to Wall Street or Washington and comes back down. And so you end up with more and
more central control. Now, here's the little secret. It's economically insane.
If you could do more money going around, you could make the pie much bigger.
Well, of course, just like power transmission, the longer you have to move power along lines, the more power you lose.
Exactly. And technology should advantage the little guy, not the big guy.
So, you know, go back to But can you just pause there? That Thank you for I mean, it just shows how old I am that I know what you're talking about cuz that was the original promise, right?
That I mean, it's hard to believe now, but 30 years ago when the internet was being introduced to the public, the idea was this is empowering for the
for the average person. So when that happened that was when my company this was the fight I had with the department of justice. We built software tools. We
had one software tool called community IPO in a box to help everybody locally facilitate equity you know stock markets
for local areas. But we build a software tool called community wizard and you could dial in and say my neighborhood is my county or my zip code or my
congressional district and you could map out the sources and uses of all federal credit and money in your community. So
you could get the equivalent of a financial statement for the jurisdictions in which you vote for political representation. So you could
really hold your congressman accountable because you could see a financial statement for your jurisdiction. And the Department of Justice seized our
offices, seized the software, put it took me six years to get it out from the courts. And when I got it out from the courts, it was missing all the most important pieces.
It's funny they'd want to discourage accountability.
[laughter] Well, what I discovered when I was in the in the administration was that if the local business people
could see how the money works around them, they could get back in the game.
So, you know, we regularly saw I told you this before, we regularly saw communities where HUD was spending 250,000 per unit to build public housing
and 50,000 would buy and rehab a single family foreclosed property in the same fourb block area. So, um, and I I
literally, um, but it was the same with jobs. We were paying a contractor in Washington 100, 125 per hour to do
something that we could keep local. You you didn't need to send it all the way up there. No.
So that a big contractor could corporate contractor could do it, you know. So there was a great story during the the financial crisis where a
woman lost her job, very responsible, hardworking, couldn't find another job, ultimately had to take food stamps, which was a matter of great shame for
her. And so she had a problem with him and called tech support and got a woman in India working for JP Morgan Chase who
had at that point 37 of the state food stamp, you know, uh, programs they were managing. and and she said, "Wait a
minute, you know, I could do this job and if I was doing this job, I wouldn't need food stamps. So why are we sending it to India with a big markup for a big
bank when I could just do this job and then I wouldn't need food stamps?" It's hard not to see malice in there somewhere.
Oh, there's total malice. So, I mean, here's the thing. If if I have a a publicly traded stock and it's trading
at a price earnings ratio of 10, just to make it simple, if I make a dollar, my stock goes up $10, right? Okay. Now, if
government intervenes to take a million dollars of income to ma, you know, that
Main Street is making and shift it into a publicly traded stock, that stock will go up 10 million. What's the biggest source of political contributions?
Capital gains. Right? So, so the more I shift money out of Main Street into publicly traded stocks, the more I get
the pop on the stock and the more investors of real estate capital gains or or company enterprise capital gains,
the more money they'll give. So, you know, so in Washington, there's this giant sucking sound.
So let's go back to the pandemic. Remember the pandemic? I've Yeah, vaguely.
You shut down Main Street, which is not publicly traded. And suddenly all their market share has to go to publicly traded stocks, either online companies
or the big box stores. So, I'll never forget there's a wonderful moment during the pandemic when um Rick Santilly is
standing on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange and he's saying and and Andrew Sorcin is up in the studio and Santilly says, "This makes no sense. I'm
going to the mall. All the little companies are closed. Costco's next door and the the parking lot's packed and Costco's packed. It doesn't make any
sense. Why are the little guys have to be shut down for the virus?" you know, it's okay next door, you know, because the parking lot's packed. People
are all congregated in, you know, they're all together. And Sorcin says the virus can't go in Costco. It can't
go in the big box stores. That's science. Well, cuz Sorcin believes in science.
[laughter]
But but here's the thing. If you look at how much money was made by Wall Street, it was a giant sucking sound of market
share into publicly traded stocks and then the capital gains go back around, you know, for the political contributions. So, I told you I have an
online book that explains how this works. Um, which I've tried to publish three times and each time it's gotten
sabotaged the last time they threatened somebody in my family. So, I backed off and never pub. It's online. It's in it's it's you know it's not censored but I've
never put it in hardback and I'm waiting for everybody to die and then I'll publish it again. I'll try again. I'll try for the fourth time. But it it shows
you exactly how the game works on a private prison company that my old firm had financed. So I show you I get out
all the SEC documents and I show you the game and how it works, how it translates into capital gains and that could you just summarize it really quickly?
Chapter 6: The Evils of the Privatized Prison System
Yeah. [clears throat] So, we started a movement in the early '9s to privatize a portion of the prison system.
I remember. And it's economically insane.
I think I was for it for the record. I I've had so many dumb positions over the years that I it's I think I was for
that. So at the time that I I wrote uh the analysis, the best figures I could get from general accounting office was
it was costing the whole criminal justice system was costing 154,000 per person per year. And one of the reasons
was the construction of all these private facilities is one of my theories. But what I showed you was the stocks were trading on a per bed basis.
Okay? So, if you could get a law passed that uh mandated longer sentences, the stocks would go up because you get to get a bigger PE per bed. Okay.
Come on.
Yeah. And literally what they did was they started the companies and then they started a program to drop SWAT teams
into neighborhoods to literally drop in and round up kids, you know, who could be dealing drugs or not. You know, who was stealing the bringing in the drugs?
it wasn't the kids and um and literally they cut off in DC they cut off the money to the public defenders office so
the kids had to all cop please and that would stuff the prisons and at the same time what they did is they created a
company at the department of justice called Unicor that could market prison labor to corporations for tiny dollars
no really it's a slavery system obviously it's a slavery system and the book describes it's called Dylan Reed and the aristocracy of stock profits and
explains how the whole system works, who made money, how they made money. And what's sad about it is, you know, my my
guess from doing that analysis is that many of the people making money on it are the same people who are making money
bringing in the drugs and I describe all those things. So, um, and and the power of the book, it took me a year to write
it and I had a I was living in Montana and you couldn't walk in my house. You could only step on piles of SEC
documents and there are literally hundreds of thousands of pages of documentation behind it because I had to prove all the different pieces of the
financial ecosystem. And so, we put up all the documentation. And it was, you know, it was quite astonishing because
it really helped people who had trouble understanding the growing central control. It helped them to see that it was very intentional. The saddest fact
of the moment we're living in is that the American dream itself is evaporating for a lot of young people. And how do you know that? Cuz they can't afford to
buy homes. Owning property, something that was completely normal. It was America just a generation ago is now a
dream for so many people. People are [music] using buy now pay later apps to buy food, dinner on credit. So what
you're watching is the slow failure of systems that don't work anymore. This isn't [music] nostalgia. Things really are getting worse and you can feel it.
So for nearly 80 years, the US dollar sat at the center of our economic system. After [music] World War II, the world trusted the dollar because it
trusted the strength and the discipline of American leaders. And that trust sadly is fading. You can see it when central banks are doing right now.
Quietly at historic levels across the world, they are buying gold, not ETFs, but actual gold and putting it in actual vaults. That's what China is doing,
dumping treasuries, buying gold. So when the people closest to the system are hedging against the dollar, you should probably pay attention.
They are going to what they've always gone to from the beginning of recorded history. Gold. Owning today is not a radical move. Oh, it's so radical you're buying gold. You'd be insane not to.
It's what we do in my house. And we really mean it. We mean it enough to found Battalion Metals. Battalion Metals
gives Americans a straightforward way to buy fairric gold and silver, not at 50 points above spot, but like three points
above spot, right to your house. We will deliver it to you. It's the quickest, fastest, most reliable way to do it. And
Battalion Metals has access to the most stable supply of actual metals you're going to find in this country. Period.
Battalion.com/tucker is the address. Go there to learn more, including how to convert your IRA into a precious metals IRA. That's battalion.com/tucker.
Chapter 7: What Crisis Will Justify Digital Currency?
in order to implement any big societywide change and I think your co uh example is a perfect one. You really
have to construct a crisis and the change is a solution to whatever the problem you created is. So like if you I don't know want to create a new federal
agency, you probably need a 9/11. If you want to make biometrics the rule, you probably have to push AI and make the
case that like we don't know who anybody is because everything's a deep fake. So you have to have biometrics and you know in your Twitter handle etc. What will be
the crisis that justifies digital currency?
So let me step back for a second because what I see is the crisis is only the apex and the third act.
To get the crisis working you have to get thousands of things in place. So for example coming into CO I don't think you
could have done CO without for example getting federal accounting standards advisory board
statement 56 into place in 2018 and then having the central bankers meet and approve the going direct familiar with
that. I will I I would be delighted to tell you about that because this is one of those things that sounds
very boring that is like a you know a 10 richtor earthquake. So for many many
years there was a group of us who were uh trying to bring as much transparency
to the fact that there was serious criminality going on in the federal accounts and $21 trillion was missing
and and that was happening because the federal government refused to obey the financial management laws. So they are required, you're a citizen, you pay your
taxes, they're required to give you, you know, you give them your 1040 and they're required to give you back and says, "Okay, here's how we spent your
money." And that's required in the Constitution, the financial management laws. The federal government has has since the mid '90s been in complete
violation of those laws. So there was a lot of pressure that was brought to bear when Dr. Mark Skidmore with Ceri
published his report on the 21 trillion missing and and so pressure pressure pressure. The DoD
keeps saying, you know, we can't pass an audit. We're not going to pass an audit.
And then 2018, remember the Kavanaaugh hearings very well.
Okay. Everybody was very busy, you know, watching the Kavanaaugh hearings. The federal government, the House, the
Senate, and the White House altogether, October 2018, published an administrative policy
called Fazby 56 that basically said in violation of the Constitution, the financial management laws and the
financial management regulations that they could set up a secret group of people by a secret process and pull things out of the the government's
financial statements and keep them secret. not just for the 24 covered agencies but for 150 plus related
governmental entities and when you take in the national security and classification laws that means also that the big banks and contractors working
for the federal government can do the same right that's delayed and JP Morgan too right and what that means is basically
the entire large cap stock and bond market in the United States is secret the disclosure is meaningless it doesn't
mean anything. And if you if you go to salary, we have a missing money section and we have extensive not only
descriptions of fazby 56, but what it means to investors.
On what grounds could the federal government declare private businesses, the whole of itself, all kind of offlimits to disclosure?
They have no legal basis because this is in violation of the constitution, the financial management laws and the financial
uh management regulations. We have a section at missing money with seven briefing papers. It took me two years
working with our attorneys to do it that describe all the financial management laws of the United States. so that you can see and luckily one of the
interesting things that happened when Fazby 56 passes Matt Taibbe picked up on it and wrote an article about it and he
it's funny he emailed me he said okay I got the briefing papers thank god because it's very you know if you're someone like Matt Taibi it's very hard
to sit down and learn the financial management laws of the United States that's why we did the briefing papers so that any reporter could you know get
into this and and master it in a reasonable period Was this a or just a regulation? Was this is voted on?
This is administrative policy. So in administr in law there's the constitution, there's the financial management laws, there's a regulation
and then there's the administrative policy. So this is the total inversion.
This is an administrative policy saying we can break the constitution, the financial management laws and the regulations by administrative policy.
But the House, the Senate, and the um and the White House all agreed. So, it was a joint and they tried to sneak it
through. And I was very lucky because um there was a guy at the time who worked for the American Federation of Scientists who literally read the Fed
Federal Register. And I had signed up as for his newsletter because I didn't want to, but I trusted him to do it. And he would keep an eye on the black budget
issues of a guy named Steve Aftergood, very good. and and he in his newsletter he read it and he understood what it
meant because it's so boring nobody would understand that's exactly right what's not boring and I just I'm sorry to keep interrupting you but I don't want anything to fall through the cracks
Chapter 8: The Dark Origins of Israel and the Black Budget
the black budget issues what black budget what is the black budget and what was he looking at and why should we care so so we have an overt economy we have a
covert economy the covert economy is driven by a series of pools of money and
cash flows the first one um uh Joseph Pharaoh calls it the hidden system of
finance. The first one started with all the seizures during the wars. So during World War II, a great amount of assets
were seized and that created a pool of money that was available for covert operations. So there's a wonderful story
in Christopher Simpson's first book about how the money they had seized had been moved into the exchange stabilization fund which is the mother
of all slush funds that's managed by the secretary of treas managed by the New York Fed for the secretary of treasury.
So the money had been moved in and the Dulles brothers are sitting at Sullivan and Cromwell and and they use that money
to rig the 48 elections in uh in Europe at the request of the Vatican. Anyway, so so so [laughter]
this is the you know so we have these this seizure pool. Then what happened uh we passed the national security act in
47 and then in 49 we passed the CIA act which was very fractious. It literally
took assassinating foresttol to get that done and who was thrown out of a window.
Yeah. Yeah. So that's Bethesda Naval Hospital. He'd been the secretary of war and he was very opposed to the creation
of the black budget and the creation of Israel. And so who killed him? And why don't people understand that the the defense
secretary secretary of war was was murdered?
So I don't think one in a 100 people know that.
So we you know he was a Dylan Reed partner. So I knew that because I used to stare at his painting in the partner's boardroom and or dining room
and they would you know they would always train you by telling you if you're not careful in Washington this.
It's funny. There are two books that I I have read on it, but both of which cost like a hundred bucks a piece on eBay because they're it's just Have you read David Martin's book?
I don't know. I have two. They're in my office. I read them.
You want to read David Martin? We have a great interview with Dave Martin. And let me finish.
Both were written in the 60s. But really quickly, do I mean his murder his murder was part of a deal to get the 49 act passed is my theory.
Okay. and um and that and to create the creation of Israel. So it was both the black budget and Israel that were and they needed to get him out of the way.
So um we have a big interview on it in salary and I've looked very into it very deeply. I was very interested in Forsol.
Anyway, so the but the 49 act was the CIA act. So you have the National Security Act 47 the CIA act. What the
CIA act authorized was the ability to appropriate money to different agencies and then claw it back secretly to a
black budget. So now we have the hidden system of finance with the pools of seized money and we add to that a layer
of money that can be appropriated and clawed and used secretly only subject to very limited oversight by a a committee
in Congress. So, so the appropriations committees wouldn't see that money, only this one committee that oversaw the
black budget. Okay? And and if you look at those two pools, the next step
happened in 81 when Bush comes in. Bush comes in as vice president under Reagan and his deal with the Reagan folks
during the campaign was he'll because he'd run the CIA, he'll run intelligence and enforcement. and the Bushies were
very very good at the nuts and bolts of of sort of the mechanics of government and the legal system and money. He got
an executive order done that said essentially you can use this secret money, the black budget money, and you
can use it to hire corporate contractors who can now do highly classified projects. Now, let me explain what this
means as a financial matter. So we were talking about stock market going up. You can now take the most secret powerful
technology in the world and pay corporations to learn and end up owning that technology
secretly in a way that drives their stock to the moon. So now you've correct connected the US Treasury market
directly like a pipe into companies and and drive their stock up almost to an
infinite amount. It's quite as a financial mechanism. It's one of the most powerful things that ever happened in our history.
[laughter]
What percent? So, we have the federal budget which we can look up online. Um, but after FASB 56, it's totally meaningless.
What? And okay, so it's meaningless because we don't know where the money is actually going. Is that why?
No, because the most important pieces of the money, we don't know what's been taken out. We don't know what's been made secret.
So, so you can see what's there and you can see, for example, I can see by looking at the HHS budget how much we're
spending to poison America. So, you know, I can see a lot. A lot.
A lot. Yeah. No, it's huge. And, you know, we're bankrupting the country, poisoning America. But, you know, I don't know what's not there.
In other words, a secret group of people by a secret process have taken out whatever they want. And I don't know what they've taken out. I I don't know.
Doesn't mean anything to me.
I mean, would it be possible to audit the federal budget?
You would have to audit the bank statements. You would have to audit people say, "We want to audit the Fed."
No, you want to audit the federal accounts at the New York Fed and you want to audit the exchange stabilization
fund at the New York Fed. That's what you want to audit. And what you want to find out is where did the 21 trillion go
or come in? You know, all all the the federal government has refused to balance its accounts since the mid90s.
And we know that there are inexplicable undocumentable adjustments of enormous amounts. And the only way you can figure
out what happened is to go into those bank accounts and figure out what came in and what went out and and to actually
map out the actual cash and and you have to do it not just in the you know so the New York Fed is depository for the US government. So you
have to do it in those accounts but you also have to look at the borrowing accounts and the slush fund accounts which is the exchange stabilization. Has anyone attempted to do any of that?
So, so, uh, you know, Ran Paul and his father and Congressman Massie have talked about auditing,
um, the accounts, and it's funny because
[laughter]
Massie and I were at a great conference once, and he was talking about shutting down the Fed. And I kept saying, "No, no, you don't shut it down until you get the 21 trillion back, otherwise they get
to keep the 21 trillion." [laughter] So, Thomas was up giving a wonderful speech and he said, "Uh, you know, I think we should shut down the Fed." And then he
looked at me and he said, "After we get Catherine's money back." [laughter] Can I ask just quick about Massie? Um he's obviously gotten into a very
Chapter 9: Why Are They Trying to Destroy Thomas Massie?
personal um altercation with the president ongoing. There's the question of Apac. He was one of the few people uh who didn't take Apac money, but the
all-out effort to destroy him, I just feel like there's something more than just getting in a tiff with Trump for not taking Apac money.
So here's what's at the heart of Massiey's fight. Yeah.
And you know, are we going to be run by the rule of law or are we going to be run by a secret governance system
essentially consolidating things into what what I would call the mega rich who are above the law? You know, are we you
know, this is fundamentally about is there going to be the rule of law or not? And and you know, the the thing I
love about Massie, he's an engineer. And if you talk with him or listen to him about a wide range of subjects, you
know, starting with food and agriculture, he is ruthlessly focused on what is productive, on what makes
economic sense. And what he knows is that the centralization of control is
destroying productivity. It's destroying wealth. And he knows that, you know, whether it's family wealth or community
wealth, you cannot you cannot have a civilization, you know, you cannot have a civilization
if if you have a society that is this enormously destructive of individual sovereignty and individual and family
wealth. And so he's literally, if you look in all these different areas, he's just constantly moving out, making, you
know, trying to do what makes sense. And um and his understanding because he's been a a entrepreneur and a small businessman and a farmer and a rancher.
He understands the the economics bottom up. One of my favorite Thomas Massie stories I heard on your show, which was an amazing interview. I always make
young people watch at least the second half of your interview with Massie, the off-grid part.
Yeah. When he's talking about how he figures he he gets he he he busts the he's the county mayor essentially and he
bust the prisoners out of the jail to help him install a new hot water heater cuz they can't afford to buy, you know, they have to buy a used one. They can't
afford to buy a new one. Okay. So that's, you know, that's exactly the story.
That's a building well story, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What's what's happened is so sad.
I It's hard to believe.
It's one of the finest people I've ever met in Washington and
[clears throat]
uh it's just gone in this direction that's not helping anybody. You think?
Well, you know, I I tend to have a pretty shallow analysis. So, when I say it's helping no one, I I I'm not confident helping no one.
Our number one problem is the secret governance system.
I agree with that. and he's going right at the heart of the issue. Not because he he wanted to, but because he's trying to do all these fundamentally productive
things in five or 10 different none of us wanted any of these fights.
Actually, I think it's fair to say he didn't really want these fights either, right? Well, here's the thing. So if I was, you know, if suddenly tomorrow, uh,
Chapter 10: How Dual Citizenship Fuels Secret Governance
you know, I got I was in charge, you know, I was the dictator in charge, first thing I do is I'd outlaw dual citizenship,
you know, in an important governmental position, obviously, right? And and you know, and that goes to the heart of the secret governance system and backdoor control.
How does dual citizenship go to the heart of secret governance? becau because the secret governance system
controls through allowing people to operate above the law or have different incentives that put them outside of the
system. And I think the dual citizenship is part of that of that process.
At the most obvious level, you can be indicted for a crime in the United States and flee to the other country whose passport you hold.
Right? So look at the sex offenders who literally have have done terrible things
with children in this country who've fleeed to Israel and are protected.
Dozens and dozens and dozens and dozens of them, not just a few. We had a high-profile example of this recently, but it's been going on a really long
time. That's the obvious, that's the most shocking kind of wait, how do you get to, you know, try to molest a child and then flee to our closest ally and
stay safe? But you're saying that this same principle applies to financial crimes and governance.
So I suspect one of the things I've never known is what is the full benefits of dual citizenship, but I suspect there are financial benefits as well.
Tell me what that means.
So it it could mean many things. It it could be the ability to keep money in Israel or through Israel off books, not
subject to taxes. It it could mean many things. It could just mean, you know, financial rewards that are that are completely, you know, on the face of it legal. But I'll give you an example.
We've just seen two arrests in the in the UK coming out of the Epstein files, not for anything to do with sex, but the
fact that they had that they had compromised state secrets, right? So, but presumably they did that in exchange
for, you know, various benefits of being part of the network. The what is the network?
Chapter 11: The Epstein Network
In that case, I would well I would call it the Epstein network, but I'd really call it the Royal Shield network. So big picture the the takeaway from my
perspective from the Epstein a cursory reading of two million pages is that um there's a government or a governance
structure above governments. So I would say that there are investment networks and if you look
at what Epstein there's if you come to solaria we have a commentary up called was Jeffrey Epstein the father of programmable money which I believe you
know the answer is yes or certainly one of them um and if you read we're pointing to a Substack series written by
a guy who writes anonymously under the the name ESC as in escape ESC and it's a
marvelous uh thing very well documented back to the to the Epstein files that we've now received describing how
Epstein who I believe was laundering money was allocating that money to all these different projects that help
develop crypto and programmable money and um but what he describes in the process of one of those substacks is
traditionally historically for the last 150 years how the raw shield networks and I would include Rockefeller and Ross
Shield as sort of central banking network together. how they operate both the family and then people who are sort
of uh s calls him the switchboard the agents who sort of coordinate between the different houses and and the network
and it in one sense it's a very informal network but it it because it has the blessing of the central bankers it receives a lot of protection from the
intelligence agencies and um you know it's a networking function and he does a very good job of describing how it
operates as is a functional matter and that's ex everything he writes is exactly what I saw in Washington and
Wall Street. You have a layer of equity pools in and around the central banks that are engaged in trying to
build forward in a variety of ways and position money and manage risk and they
are literally increasingly above the law and they don't seem directly tied to any
particular country. They're sort of above countries.
Yeah, they're, you know, they're they they can operate within a a country sphere. Um, you know, but Epstein was
basically global. And if you look at the programmable money and what he was doing to build programmable money that required operation in both Europe, the
United States and around the world can ask you a question that occurs. So if you China's economy is now bigger than
Chapter 12: Is China a Threat?
the United States is clearly China is going to be at some point likely the dominant world power. Um I don't necessarily believe that.
You don't? No.
Okay. Well, the I the nature of the Chinese government and civilizations seem to make it
kind of impervious to this sort of stuff. Like China's an ethnostate, right?
A HanchChinese ethnostate. So, I don't think they're going to be doing a lot of dual citizenship type stuff in China. No.
And I don't believe the Chinese government is going to allow its authority to be challenged by
international pools of capital at least in the east because it's going to control the east, right? I think right.
Um, so China is like a roadblock to these forces. So the question is you
know China was developed by Europe and US capital right and so the question is you know what
obligations does China have to European and US capital and I don't know the answer
China's strength is if you look at what they're doing with technology their innovation and speed is astonishing and
very very impressive and is racing by the United States right right now. Um if you look at their demographic issues and
their um they they have very serious demographic issues and they have a very serious real estate crisis to be managed
that has profound implications with the demographic problem because a lot of the retirement saving was put in real estate
and now that real estate is down and they have an aging population they've got some real issues. So um they have a
lot to manage and a lot of how they do depends on how successful their Silk Road innovation you know sort of
investments work out for them. So but I'm not convinced that they necessarily have to end up as the dominant world
power. If you if you you know they've worked very hard for the last 10 to 15 years to make their currency
acceptable as one of the basket of reserve currencies and yet if you look at how much has the market share it's
it's um it's limited and I think one reason is the distrust of the Chinese is
extraordinary because they are deeply deeply committed to the superiority of
the Han people. And so if you look at different experiences people have had with the Chinese, I think they have a
real challenge to build trust. Now the US was able to build that kind of trust.
Now we're blowing it. So um you know the question is how fast can they build it versus how fast are we going to blow it?
I want to get back to programmable digital currency really quick. How far are we from like universal adoption in
Chapter 13: Are There Benefits to Stablecoin?
the west and when when and if that comes what will it mean for like the average person?
Okay, so let's go back to the clarity act. So stable coins are the you know trading the treasury bills y
and the I think treasury's hope is that they can attract you know several billion anywhere from 4 to 10 billion
trillion dollars into the treasury market with this mechanism by offering it globally and and if it's very
successful at a retail level it's going to pull a lot of money out of local banking systems all over the world.
What's the advantage to using a stable coin?
Uh, you know, I can't stable coin proponents will say that it lowers transaction fees, which will
probably be true internationally, but frankly, I can't think of one reason why I would ever I have no intention of
using any of them. So, the last thing I would Well, you're against it like philosophically and for, you know, for the reasons you've articulated, but it's
like Amazon. Amazon's obviously bad, but everyone uses it because there clear benefits. It's like it's cheap, it's fast, right?
Are there clear benefits to the consumer in this in stable coin?
So, what will really come down is if you want to use a system on your mobile payment phone, you know, which will be better, Venmo or the stable coin. And
and it it depends a lot of that depends on what comes out in the negotiation next. And I'll I'll get to that in a
second. If the fintech firms can offer rewards and interest interest then then they can make it very
attractive to use a stable coin and but it's not clear it's not clear how that's going to sort out.
Sounds like the US government needs the stable coin in [snorts] order to keep treasuries selling.
You know if if you look at how much they say they're hoping to get. not that it it it's not going to make the big difference.
Okay. Now, let's talk about asset tokens cuz that's where the big float is going to come. So, uh the Clarity Act is what
is is creating the as as the Genius Act created the framework for stable coins.
The Clarity Act and and its Senate version is creating the framework for digital assets and digital tokens. Now,
Larry Frink and Black Rockck have said they're planning on trading all stocks and bonds using tokens or digital
assets. So, they have not been clear operationally exact exactly how this is going to work. But what it means is this
is going to be, you know, potentially 10020 trillion market if they do it. And what that means is they want to be able
to trade all financial assets worldwide on a distributive ledger that can be turned into programmable money. Now, if
you talk to the people who are issuing stable coins now or working on the Clarity Act, they say, "Oh, we would never do that. That's CBDC." But in
fact, if you look at the stable coin bill, the Genius Act, it is set up, and we have a big article about this on
Soleri, it is set up so that all stable coin issuers have to plug into the Treasury's pipe where the Treasury
applies its know your customer, money laundering, and sanctions. And if you look at that pipe, that pipe can be
integrated with a full social credit system. So whereas CBDC applies the rules through the central bank, the
stable coins apply the rules through the treasury. And so if if we are working with states, we have Ceri has model
legislation on stopping programmable money from being misused. And what we are saying to the states is look, before
the horse leaves the barn, you have to put the bridal in the saddle on the horse. And so states can outlaw this.
And we're trying to get the states to make sure cuz Treasury is saying, "Oh, we would never do that." Or the stable companies are saying, "Oh, we would never do that." And we're saying, "If
you would never do that, you don't mind if we pass a law that says you can't do that." Right? Do they mind?
Uh, they don't seem to be enthusiastic about it. And one of the interesting things is the Clarity Act has a provision that outlaws central bank
digital currency. It's been thrown out of the Senate version. Apparently, they want to reserve the right of the central bank to do that. And apparently,
congressmen have said that both in the NDAA and another piece of legislation.
The speaker, speaker Johnson has stopped their amendments to stop central bank digital currency. They said he promised them that he would outlaw it. You know,
the president had an executive order promised uh they were believe they were promised that it would be turned into law. Johnson has blocked it both times.
So, I'm deeply suspicious because if you look at what you can do with stable coins and and digital tokens and digital
assets, you can implement all programmable money, but if you leave the authority open to do CBDC, at some
point, the central banks can come along once the system has gotten going. And so, my attitude is, look, if you guys say you're not going to do this, we can
outlaw it now. Again, put the bridal and the, you know, the saddle on the horse before you leave the barn. and the barn. You know, if you end
up with 250 trillion outstanding and you haven't put the bridal and saddle on, you got a problem.
What would be the effect if we wind up with digital programmable currency?
So, if we wind up with a 100% digital system, no cash, no paper money, we're moving there fast.
We're we're moving there, although we're trying to [laughter] slow it down. So remember, if you know, if if millions of Americans start using
cash in size, it can absolutely revolutionize what happens. So I
recommend it. But um if we move there, then if
I want you to not be able to leave your home, your money won't work if you leave your home.
If I want you to uh only be able to eat certain foods and if I want you to be able to eat foods made with insects and not be able to buy
real meat, your money won't work to buy real meat. If I want you to take a vaccine a month and I mandate vaccines
for you and your family, if you don't, I'll turn off your money. So, I have complete control of your food, your
health care, your spatial travel, everything. So you were no longer in a democracy or a democratic republic. You
were in a slavery system. If I want your kids to leave their home and go to a boarding school where I control their
education, if you don't agree, I turn off your money.
Can I just ask the dumbest question? Why would anybody in authority want that level of control? Why? Like what's the
Chapter 14: The Real Reason They Want to Control You
impulse there? Why would you want to do that to people?
With that kind of control, I can bring out phenomenally uh powerful technology without worrying
about it being weaponized. So, I can bring out breakthrough energy technology and not worry that I can't control how it gets used.
um I can manage a um a large population in a world where
technology is changing without losing control. So I can uh a small group of
people can control the many. Um, and also if I believe that with life science I can live forever or for much longer
lifetimes, I can either depopulate or control people who are angry that I'm
living to be 145 and they're not. Um and and I can basically keep them in check
even though you know so so the mega rich can live a very different luxurious life
and control or shrink the the rest of the population you know without fear because they have complete control.
So bottom line in a time of radical technological change which we're living through right now right the obvious the first result is like
societal chaos and revolutions and wars and that's why I got the bullshiks etc etc the people pushing this technological change or watching it from
positions of authority know this and so the control grid would allow the transition to whatever this technological future is without the downside of like a bolevik revolution.
So, you know, in my experience, the people who run the financial system are first and foremost risk managers. Mhm.
They don't think in terms of making money. They print money out of thin air, but but they're very deeply careful
about risk and they're very afraid of the guillotine. They're very afraid of the crowd. They should be.
They should be. And but it's hard. It's hard to manage, you know, people. And if you look at at coming into the
development of digital technology and globalization, they had two choices.
They could use this technology to build something that allowed explosive new decentralized wealth to be created.
At which point, how did they make sure they stay in control? Um, especially because you have so much going on that's
secret. Um, so so how do you stay in control? and and can you create a
bottomup structure that will behave responsibly? And the hard part of behaving responsibly is
you as a manager of society have to turn the aircraft carrier before you hit the iceberg. You don't trust the crowd to
care until you hit the iceberg and then it's too late. So you decide, okay, we need a meritocracy. We can't trust the people. Now I disagree with that, but so that was the model I was working on.
when I was making all this software. So, so I was saying we can have a bottomup structure that does the risk management
but builds the explosive wealth and and it can work but but then you don't have an Uber class. No, you don't.
So, so but I think they decided okay the only way we find managing
the general population very frustrating and it's back to the red button story.
we find them very hypocritical and irresponsible and frustrating. We are very frustrated. We are just going to go to complete control. And they had to
choose one or the other. And and so they chose complete control. The problem is once you you get into complete control,
you you get a an uber class of people who literally think of themselves as a different species. Yeah. And they may be actually.
Sorry. Excuse me. Um [laughter] I have my suspicions. um partly confirmed. But anyway, no, but you're absolutely right. The attitudes change.
When you go from being an egalitarian society, at least society that sees egalitarianism as the goal, a Christian society, to something else, then the
attitudes of the people in charge become so bad. I see it.
Well, but here's what's interesting because I I have had a very unique life.
And so I've had the privilege of living at the top, in the middle, and the bottom. And what's amazing when you go,
you know, back and forth between these different groups, the people at the top have no clue why the people at the bottom are behaving the way they're
behaving. It's just the ignorance between the the different groups is unbelievable.
It's funny, they um I've spent my whole life in that group and but with you know, sojourns into other groups and the
people at the top, especially now more than ever, believe that all criticism of them is hate. It's just it's unreasonable. It's just fundamentally
unreasonable. They hate us because they always hate us because they're hateful people. And that hate is based basically on envy because we're so great. We're so
successful. We're so smart that you know successful people are always hated because of their success. So, you know what's funny about that?
[laughter]
It's like those divorces you see where like one person is totally convinced it's the 100% the other person's fault and you're like, "No, it's a marriage.
It's both your fault." Well, but here's what's funny because you know I live in the United States. I live in Hickory Valley, Tennessee.
Y and I will tell you, I've said many times if I have to go down the river, I want to go with people from Hickory
Valley, Tennessee instead of course I agree.
There's a whole world of people who've got 180 IQ in Silicon Valley and they are stupid as attack because they float
on it on rigged black budget and federal government money. noticed they have no insight into fundamental economics.
That's why I love Massie because Massie understands bottomup economics and and these we have such a huge
you know we have cycled brilliant people through universities and put them into places where they are so divorced from fundamental economics or the math of
time and money because they are floating on a sea of black budget and government money. I completely agree and it does have a corrosive effect on that class
and then it reaches its kind of ugliest conclusion with Epstein who like in addition to everything else is like kind of dumb. I read EB are illiterate
certainly illiterate. I mean I read his emails and I'm like this guy I wouldn't hire someone like that under any circumstance. These are the people who are telling us they're geniuses and we're mad at them because they're so smart. I don't think so.
Well, but I think they think you know here's the thing.
They think that many people are stupid because they let them get away with it.
You know, they there hasn't been the push back and so they the more we allow it to go on, the less they respect. Now, I'll
tell you something. There was that such a deep point what you just said. There was a magical moment when Pam Bondi was testifying, the attorney
Chapter 15: Should We Be Focused on Epstein or the Dow?
general was testifying on Epstein and she said, "We should be talking about the Dow being over 50,000." Let me correct you. She said over $50,000.
Yeah.
So, um, what does that mean? The Dow at $50,000.
What she meant was So, I don't know if you're But it means she doesn't know what the Dow is, right? I mean, like, it's not $50,000, is it?
Right. Right. But [laughter] but I'd forgotten that she said dollars. But yeah, but here here's what was magical about
that. So, do you remember the red button story I told you about?
Yeah. Okay. So, she was basically saying as long as we keep your 401ks up, we can
do all this stuff and it's okay with you because historically that is the truth. God bless her.
The problem is no, I'm not, you know, I feel I feel sad for for Pam Bundy. I don't think she's thriving. I don't think she's happy.
No, I'm not guessing. Uh but, you know, live by the Dow, die by the Dow. I mean, so if that's the if that's
the measure, um if all things are okay in in a bull market, then like what is a bare market?
What does that suggest? Like, if that's do you know what I mean?
Right. But here here's the message of what she brought up. If people will allow you to poison and abuse and rape
their children in exchange for keeping their 401ks up, you have no reason to respect them.
I I agree and I don't I don't respect them. So I'll say that I I feel the same way.
Right. So So in in that sense, we're we all got ourselves into this mess together.
I totally agree with that. I completely agree. I think that about China. I think that about Epstein. there's a lot of,
you know, hate toward this or that group and it's like, no, no, it's like a marriage. We're all implicated in this, right? And here's the most frightening
thing that I find because, you know, it's one thing to be in your
town and make a mess. It's another thing to make a mess and not notice that the enem is at the gate.
Well, that's right. So if you look at how we've allowed ourselves to fall behind in technology and in national
security and in all the areas that matter to be strong on the outside, you know, we've put ourselves it's one thing
to have a corrupt leadership. It's another thing to have a corrupt incompetent leadership. And what I would
say is our leadership has not done, you know, if you disrespect the hoy paloy and you say, "Okay, I want to be the
elite and have total control." Well, then you need to be competent at your job, right? And they're not.
And the question is why?
And I vehemently agree with you. I gave this speech at dinner the other night to a bunch of people. Um, you know, every
society in history is run by, you know, a tiny elite. Often they're foreigners, by the way. That's true now in millions,
many different countries, right?
I mean, El Salvador is run by a Palestinian. Peru was run by a Japanese guy. I mean, this is, you know, okay, that's not uncommon. And there's always
a Brahman class, always. I'm not mad about any of that. Actually, what makes the West so different, the English
speaking countries, is that their populations are all dying. So, it does seem like it's more than incompetence.
It seems like hate to me, at least as measured by its results.
Right. Right. So, there is definitely a targeting and a destruction of that.
That's the way it seems to me. It's like, okay, so you're in charge, we make a bunch of money, you get the most of it because you're in charge. That's
corrupt. Yes. But it's also just the rule. I I can live with that. But if you're trying to kill me, even as you're
extracting the fruit of my toil, then it's like, no, no, this is an undeclared war against me. That's what I perceive.
That war is on. But if you look at who's who's implementing that war, they don't have a culture, an ethic, or a Mandarin class that can go the distance.
I agree with that strongly.
So, I mean, can you flush it out a little bit?
Yes. Yes. Our ruling class isn't designed to survive and thrive. Is that what you're saying?
They're going to fail. They I'm sure they're going to fail. Now, I don't underestimate the damage they can do before they fail. But, you know, one
thing I will say about China, if there's an argument for China's success, it is because it has a Mandarin class and it has a tradition, you know, of hundreds
of years of that Mandarin class. And and that's what you need. The reason I left Washington in 1998 and I said, I'm out.
these guys are going to fail is is you know whether it's the group destroying the you know our equivalent of the Mandarin class or the Mandarin class
itself they did not have a culture an ethic a vision that could go the distance they weren't good to build an
advanced civilization that they didn't have what it took what an interesting observation so what does a successful ruling class have what
is the culture that we don't have that China does it it has a culture It has a commitment to the long term.
Yeah.
So it has a long-term arc and it has the discipline
to to achieve that by keeping each in making each individual sovereign with
integrity but discipline to the vision and the order. So so you know it doesn't
let the power go to its head. I'll never forget when I first went to Washington.
I was I had been trained my whole life to deal with massive amounts of financial power without letting it go to
my head. And you got to Washington and you could look around the room and you could see the people who also had that training. They knew this was not their
money or their credit. It belonged to the country and they were there as a fiduciary for a temporary period of time
to manage it. and they took the time to understand the laws and the rules and to collaborate with other people to do so.
You got other people who were there didn't have that background or training and suddenly it's my money, it's my portfolio, it goes to their head and
they they literally, you know, they they get drunk on power and they can't handle it. It's like they can't h it's like looking at electrical
system that can't handle that voltage and and they they you know they melt down.
It burns the house down. It burns the house down. And what you had, you've gone through a process in Washington where I saw all the people who had been
trained the way I had been trained, who got pushed out cuz they wouldn't break the law and they wouldn't do stupid things and they got pushed out and you
just got yesmen, yesmen, yesmen. And now now you've got something that has no it it doesn't have a culture that can handle the voltage.
So I I feel like you see this even now. I noticed this during the trans thing.
You know, I fel felt like our leaders were pushing the transgender lunacy on everybody, right?
But then I noticed that their own children probably in higher proportion were also falling prey to it. Same with drugs, right?
They push drugs on the population, but their kids OD too, right? [clears throat] So it's like, h they kind of believe these lies. It's
not just an effort to genocide the population, which it is as well.
Well, because you're you're you're not talking about the top guys. You're talking about the sort of the middle, the implementers, right?
So, yeah, they're in the trance, too.
And everybody's thinking they're a genius, you know, because they're Where does this go over the next 10 years?
Chapter 16: What Does America's Future Look Like?
You know, something we are we are in a very interesting position. And I said at the to the solar team at the beginning of the year,
our our our motto for this year is rock and roll because the disruption is not only so chaotic and unpredictable,
you know, it's impossible to predict it because you're talking when when you have if you go back and you look at when information technology innovates
dramatically like you know the telephone or the telegraph, what happens is you not only dramatically improve the or speed up the
innovation in each area, but the connections and integration between areas in ways that you know it's beyond our
you couldn't anticipate you can't anticipate you can't predict it and um and so if you look at the
speed of change it's but I I think if you look at every group I watch you know geopolitically or
financially events are going to outrun us all and they're going to surprise us all and So we're going into an outofcrol
situation. Now the the people who run in my experience the people who run the financial system always have a plan B C
D and have thought things ahead. How they're going to manage this I don't know.
Chapter 17: Is the Universe Alive?
So how does the average person respond to it? With faith. With faith. Yeah.
Faith in faith. So I believe So I told you I was going to give you some homework. So, here's my
I welcome it. [laughter] Here's my favorite new book. It's called And we're just about to publish an amazing uh interview with the with the
author. It's called A New Science of Heaven by Robert Temple. Okay?
And it's about plasma. Our annual wrap-up is and we'll send you a copy is on plasma. I'm writing it down.
Okay. Now, 99% of the universe is made up of plasma. And if you go back, I'll confess I have no idea what plasma is. Don't ask me to explain it.
[laughter]
Well, it's about 90% of the universe.
99% 99%. And if you go back and listen to people like David Bow, the great physicist, they would sort of intimate
this. But Temple, Dr. Robert Temple has now written a book that really goes through all the science of it. And what
Temple says is that plasma is alive and intelligent.
Okay? Which brings all new meaning to the notion of he lives. What he's saying is the universe is alive and intelligent
now I throughout my history and it's I feel that don't you?
It is true. I'm sure it's true. It's yeah the the universe is alive. The universe is intelligent you know whether
it's the plants the animals the people we share intelligence and it's not through our brain it's through our whole body through our energy everything. So,
so anyway, but the new science of heaven is really about plasma and how it's alive and intelligent. Now, what I'm going to tell you, I don't care how much
programmable money you have, how many biometrics you have, how many digital IDs you have, how many drones, you know, DoD is going to buy a million drones a
year, how many drones you have flying overhead. I don't care. There's no way you can control the entire universe. Do
you know what I mean? And if you understand what what Temple and Balm and these guys are saying about how the universe works,
it's out of control. Now, what you can do is you can interact with it with love and intention and integrity, you know,
but it's out of control. And I absolutely believe that. And that's why I think this whole digital control model is going to fail. I just want to make
sure you're describing the Tower of Babel.
You're describing like the limits of human power and foresight and technology and technology.
It it it it just if you understand life, the whole thing is nuts. Now, if you if
you look at the leadership, I can absolutely because they're hyper materialists. I can absolutely believe that they would think they can control
it. And I can understand as risk managers why you might want to.
What's a hyper materialist? A hypermaterialist is somebody. So if you and I were going to make a taxonomy of
all knowledge in our world, there is knowledge that relates to things that we can see. So this table or this wall or
this painting, you know, it's real. We can see it. It's concrete. Okay. So there's a material world. Um but then
there's a whole world that's invisible either because it's spiritual or it may be material, but it's like the Wi-Fi in the room. We can't see it. So there's a
whole part of our reality whether it's uh what I call the morphagenic field. So shared
intelligence or your energetic body or my energetic body or um you know or the
Wi-Fi in the room whether it's material or spiritual there's a whole world that's invisible. And what you see in
sort of in the American culture in my lifetime is people become more and more focused on what they can see that's
material. The only invisible thing they relate to is money. You know, money is an invisible [laughter] finance is an invisible.
So money is their god.
Only a hypermaterialist could allow money to become their god. Because if you understand but if it's the only invisible thing you believe in, right?
It's your god. But but they don't know they literally don't know how
intelligence works and how power works in the universe. They are completely ignorant of the real power lines because
they can't see the invisible. It's phenomenal. It It's like walking around in a So imagine an orchestra trying to
play music and everybody's in the dark and nobody can see the score. That's what it and and that's why it sounds like that.
That's why it's so discordant.
Yeah. Yeah. It's just completely and and so like stop it with the kettle drum, right?
It's time for the strings, right? Yes.
So, we have, you know, so we're very excited because we're doing this program called the Young Builders. It's one of the reasons I'm in Florida. And and one
of our challenges is can we help this group of young people to to get a good enough map of both the visible and the
invisible so that they can you know they have a balanced map and can live a balanced life and access the power to be
accessed from you know from really understanding and seeing the invisible and knowing that it's very real and not falling prey to being a hyper
materialist. What are the power lines you just described?
So our freedom comes to us by divine authority. And if if you look at what you know there's a one of my favorite
scriptures in the Bible is the prayers of a righteous man avaleth much. And one of the things I've learned in my life is
that you know so I was an investment adviser and all my clients would show up and say we want you to help us use our money to keep them safe. And what I
would tell you is in this kind of environment with this kind of change you can only be safe if you have spiritual protection if you have spiritual
intelligence if you have spiritual authority and if you can relate with other people in a way that you can build
relationships of trust and that kind of integrity and trust is invisible you know but if you look at what can
endure during periods like this that's what endures That's what you can't um you know Corinthians says uh faith,
hope, and charity. Those are the things that endure that you can't lose and they're real. It just takes many years
of living and living around people who do it to see that it's real. So, I know you know what I mean by this.
I know exactly what you mean, and I I agree so vehemently. I wish I was as articulate as you were. Uh, well, but I literally had experiences
where I was going to be dead in 5 seconds and a miracle happened and it saved me and it was it was, you know, so
I used to always say I had one amazing deposition where I had a major spiritual protection and experience. It was one of the most amazing experiences of my life.
It's happened on several occasions. And and I said to, you know, I I call the people who, you know, so I'm I'm
assuming it's angels or guardians or whatever you want to call it. And I said to I call them the guys with the blue light. And I said, "Don't worry about
protecting yourself against the bad guys. Worry about getting in good with the guys with the blue light." So yes.
Yeah. If you if you just you know there's not enough time to do all that riskmanagement against the bad guys. If
you just focus your energy on getting in good with the good guys, you will get protected.
I think this is like uh the gospel basically. [laughter] Yeah.
So, it's I I took I once I you know, when the litigation began, I took a full one-year Bible course, which was one of
the most amazing courses I ever took in my life cuz the teachers were fantastic.
And it was riveting. It was on Monday night after work and I when I first got there, there were like 200 people and I thought, "This is never going to last.
Nobody in Washington's going to show up on Monday night again and again during the winter." Every week it got bigger.
The class grew because it the teaching was so amazing. But it really is all in the Bible. It's it's amazing.
My favorite parable, I think, is the the guy who was a good a good year with his crops. So, he builds new storehouses to store them and then he finishes them,
fills them full of crops and says, "I'm going to take a year off and just enjoy my bounty." And then he drops dead immediately. [laughter]
So, you made reference a minute ago uh to art.
Chapter 18: How Art Influences Culture
Mhm. and that you just ran a piece on art, appreciating art, loving art. What
given your background in monetary policy, finance, why are you commissioning pieces about
art, what does art have to do with anything?
Okay, so I'm going to go way out and come back in. Um, if you want to have a successful society and a successful
financial system, one of the most important questions in a financial system is who or what enforces, you know, who makes the rules, who enforces.
The only way to have a sec a really successful financial system is to have enforcement done primarily by culture.
Yes.
Okay. So the question so self-restraint as opposed to restraint, right? and respect for the rules and
respect respect. You know, I am I give you an example from Bible class. Um I
once had my teacher in Bible class ask me about the salary model and I explained it to her and she said, "Oh, you're making it much too complicated.
It's in Leviticus. It says we have to take care of ourselves. We have to take care of the land and we have to take care of each other." [laughter]
And I said, "That's it. There you go." So, she was right. But that's an example of enforcement by culture. The
obligation that I have to take care of myself, but I also have to take care of the land and the people around me. Okay.
So, so that's an example of enforcement by culture. Anyway, so so I uh I
decided, okay, at the report, we have to do something to help build the culture.
and I brought you the coming clean book and that is a sort of an overview of all the things we think are important if you want to build a culture that will do a
really good job of taking care of yourself but in a way that takes care of others and the land. So, so uh but I was
thinking okay what can we do at the salary report to help people really understand and relate to culture. So, I
was out in California and I had a dear friend, Nina Hine, who had just left this big high-powered job as publicity
in one of the studios and I said to her, she was thinking about what do I do next? And I said, if you could do anything you wanted, what would you do?
And she said, I would travel the world going to museums and writing about it.
And I said, you're hired. [laughter] So, she started a column called Food for the Soul. and she started writing these
col we would pay her budget to go travel the world and see the museum. She has a she's Polish. She uh and so she has an
apartment in Warsaw and goes back and forth between Europe and California. And she started writing these columns and it turns out Nah is absolutely brilliant. I
mean just off the charts brilliant and understands the economic and the history of all the different art she's writing about and the periods. And these columns
are absolutely fascinating. And we started to write it and after a couple years all these sort of major periodicals started to do the same
thing. Nina would get very upset and she said they're copying me and I said that's a compliment Nina that's great.
Anyway so uh it grew and grew and what happened is the ciri team would start going to the museums with her when she
was in town. So um you know when she came to the uh uh she came to Europe when we were celebrating the year of Da Vinci in 2019. I'm a huge Da Vinci fan.
And so we uh the Reichkes Museum in Amsterdam had all the Rembrandts and then we went to all the things in Italy
and then to the Lou for Da Vinci and the Salary team started coming and then their wives started or husbands started coming and you know we all started going
with her and so we started doing interviews about art and why it was relevant or why Da Vinci was relevant or why Vamir was relevant or the golden age
of the Dutch painters. So we have a you know we have a company in the Netherlands. Anyway, it grew and grew and finally we said, "Let's" we did a
wrap-up called Visions of Freedom, which she wrote of all the art that that inspired freedom and talked about freedom and encouraged freedom. Um, and
that was very very successful. And so we decided now we would roll it up into loving art. and um the young builders.
She's teaching one of the courses for the young builders because we think art is incredibly important to encouraging
culture and helping people, you know, sort of connect to both the material and the and the non-material. Anyway, so
well, it is the bridge, right? I mean, that's it's one m you know, I love music, too.
So, every week we have a music of the week on the salary report. I think music is a bridge. Um but I think art is a
bridge. She um because of her history in the movie industry, she also is one of the people who votes for the Academy
Awards. So, she sees everything and she's very good at tipping us off to what movies we want to.
So, if if art can edify and uplift a culture, it can also degrade and fracture a culture, I would think.
So, very famous story. I had a dear friend in Washington who ran the Confederate Museum and he was giving a
speech on southern culture at the Smithsonian and right in the middle some young man stood up and said why should I care about any of this and John Edward
said uh young man culture is the integration of the divine in everyday life and I later said to him I came back
and I said John Edward you forgot to warn me it can also be the integration of the demonic in everyday life yes right and that's if you read coming
clean The critical issue is are you doing everything you can to remove the demonic from your everyday life and
integrate the divine in your everyday life. And the more people who do that by doing that I protect myself and my
family and as I detox the evil from my life I deny the evil the energy and the food I'm giving it which helps everybody else.
Well, that's my favorite principle ever.
So it just to reduce it to its trightest form, change starts with you.
The power we have, I I'm not saying that the political mechanism isn't an opportunity to make change, cuz I think an election year it is. The the greatest
power we have is how we use our time, how we use our attention, and how we use our money in our daily lives. And if we
will revolutionize that by coming clean, think of this as a detox. If you will get, you know, I call the system, the
centralizing system, the tapeworm. If you will get the tapeworm out of your life, not only will you get stronger, but but you will help everybody else get
stronger because you're denying the energy to the tapeworm.
Chapter 19: How to Defeat Evil
So, what kind of daily rituals make that work?
So, the first thing you do is you start with faith because everybody's different. And so if you if you read
come and clean and I should say it's up on our website it's public anybody can get the PDF. Um uh everybody's different
and so it's very important that you apply the mathematics of your time and money in a way which is energizing for you. It's got to be practical. But the
first thing you can start to do for example and I'll talk money because that's my love. You can use cash. Okay.
And you can stop shopping. You can stop using the banks. So if you're banking with one of the big banks that created the great financial crisis, that's an
opportunity for you to get your money out of those. But you can bank with a bank that didn't cause the good financial c and is helping your local
community, you know, be successful. So so they're they're good banks and they're bad banks. You can shift your money into a good bank. You cannot shop
with the companies that are basically, you know, building the control grid and you cannot finance them. If you look at
most people's 401ks right now, they're very overconentrated in 7 to 10 stocks that are basically making money by
building the control grid. Now, you know, many many years ago, I I was an investment adviser and I changed my
company to Investment Screen and and we were very quiet about it because I wanted to make sure that we could find
plenty of companies that are not engaged in what I would call systemic organized crime or building the control grid.
There are hundreds of them. There are hundreds of great companies that are just doing the work of the world and are not engaged in organized crime. Uh you
can invest in them. You can invest in local farmers to get your food. You know, there are many different things you can do, but you can make sure your
time and money is going to support the things that are good for you. One of the most important is health. So, if you
look at what bankrupts families in America, um it's poor health, and that comes from poor nutrition. Um and and
from getting involved in the medical system in a way that's unhealthy for you. And what I used to find when I was
investment advisors is people would tell me, you know, who were millionaires and had a fortune, they would tell me, I can't afford biodnamic organic food. I
was like, you can't not afford that. You know, you're crazy. If if you if you have millions of dollars in your brokerage account and you are eating
cheap food, you know, you are making a terrible financial decision. Anyway, so if you there there are 25 items in
coming clean and you can go through all of them, but they're all about whether it's your time, your money. One of them, of course, is um is getting good
intelligence. So if they're watching Tucker Carlson, they already know what to do. But I can't tell you how many
times I had clients who would watch the major networks and just, you know, they would have a bad map of the world and
make terrible mistakes because they weren't getting good intelligence.
Very smart, very successful people who have no idea what's happening. Right.
So, can I I've interrupted you like a hundred times during this conversation, but there's so many interesting places to pause.
Chapter 20: Will There Be an Attack on Free Speech Online?
information and the means by which it's disseminated and we consume it. Like we're at a period of real openness right now because the old media have collapsed.
How long can that last where you can say whatever you think on the internet and read other people's unfiltered views on the internet? That's such a challenge to
power that I'm skeptical it can last for much longer.
So if you look at the infrastructure that's being put into place. So DoD says that they're going to buy a million drones a year.
If you look at the what has been uh I don't know if you saw the latest testimony about ICE
uh uh whistleblower claiming that he was trained to teach ICE uh agents how to break the law. Um, so if you look at the
drones, if you look at the what's happening with the local control grid with the flock cameras, the satellites, everything, they're looking to put into
place the hardware where they can shut down free speech.
Now, are we going to let it go into place? If you look at the push back, the push back is extraordinary. And so, it's not clear to me that they'll succeed to
do that. I don't know. But I will tell you now, if we don't push back hard now, uh, and keep pushing back, they will
shut down free. They'll shut down, well, the control grid will shut down the first amendment, the second amendment. It will rip the constitution to shreds.
It seems like the reason that, you know, everyone you run into at this point is like reassessing all previous
assumptions is because you can read whatever you want now online. It does seem like that has been the pivotal
change in the last 10 years. Nobody watches CNN. Everyone reads X and that makes the difference. Well, I you know I
think what happened I think most people So, so I call it this way. If I have a
computer and I have 50 databases and you bring me a database that says I've got to change my operating system, that's too hard because I've got to change 50
databases and everything. I think when you, a friend of mine used to call it getting hit by the smite button. When the system betrays you in a way that is
very harmful to you, whether because you're injured by pharmaceuticals or the medical system or your money is stolen
in the financial crisis, when the system does something that really harms you, it forces you to change your operating system. And I think the pandem I think
the financial crisis uh harmed a lot of people but then the pandemic really harmed a lot of people. Yeah, that's right.
And I you know I will tell you Tucker I I you know we were warning people from the
beginning don't take the shot. Don't take the shot. Don't take the shot. And then um at the end of 2022
I were big Wimhof fans. Do you know who Wimhof is in the Netherlands?
Yeah, of course. Okay. So, [laughter] we're huge Wimhof fans.
Yeah, we're pro pro- Northern Europe in my house. Yes, of course we know.
So, so at the end of 22, Wimhof had just published the Wimhof method and I said to I sent an email to everybody at
Christmas time and I said, "If you've been harmed by CO, let us know and we will send you a free copy of the Wimoff method because we think this can really
help." And we ended up giving away 250 copies because we would get these letter. They would write in and they
would say what had happened to them as a result of the lockdowns and losing their job or the shot.
Tucker, I'm not a sentimental person. I would burst into tears reading these stories. It was so horrible. And we just
kept buying books and giving them away because, you know, I would get these letters that say this is the first time anybody's done anything nice to me for
three years, you know, and it was so helpful to people and, you know, Wimhof is such a loving presence in people's
lives and he makes you laugh and he and the method really helps. So, so we just kept getting more books and giving them
away because it was so horrible. And I think the pandemic shifted a lot of people because they realized
our leaders not only don't care about us, they are absolutely willing to kill us.
Yeah. I think they, you know, it imbuss them with a feeling of god-like strength, right? They like it. Yeah. People love killing. I mean, that's why they always have.
That's why they continue to do it. They they pretend they don't love it, but they do love it. And I know people who do it and they love it.
Yeah. But I have to tell you that, you know, if you look at the joy that that comes from that kind of power, if you look at the joy that of creating life Exactly.
it's so much more powerful. I couldn't agree more. Right. Last question.
You got to plug into that invisible to to discover it and use it and know it.
Yeah. God creates, Satan destroys. It's really simple, right? You know, pick God's team. You said at the outset of this year, I think a lot of people approached it with trepidation, feeling
Chapter 21: Why Is Fitts So Optimistic?
like, woo, the foundations are definitely trembling in the west. You you approached it with like excitement.
You said rock and roll was rock and roll.
So what what what's that? Why why are you optimistic and everyone else is panicked?
This is the year of the firehorse in Chinese New Year. So we're right in Chinese New Year now. And it's the year of the fire horse
and the firehorse is a symbol of great change. but it's great strength. So, um
I just bought a new mug that's the Firehorse mug from from uh you know, one of these British porcelain companies
makes beautiful China. But, um so I live in Freezeland in the Netherlands in the north and uh and the horses are the Fian
horses. They're the beautiful black stallions. So every year in Larden, I was up with Michael Yan and his wife Musakaco in um in Lardan for the for the
Fian Stallion show. And these horses are just beautiful. So that's my image for this year because I was with Michael Yan at the Fian
[laughter] Stallion Show. Yeah, can't believe I missed that one.
It it put it on your bucket [laughter] list. It's the most these horses are the most beautiful horses in the world and it's an amazing
amazing show. It's every January in Lardin. I will take you.
I'm so conventional. I think of myself as freeth thinking. I didn't even think about the F and Stallion show.
Oh, well, but but the Fians are, you know, these are the horses that knights would ride. They're chargers. They're,
you know, they have huge hearts. They're very uh powerful. And and that's the energy you have to go into this year
because remember I if the world is alive and intelligent with you know if it's a plasma world then we have to attract to
us the energy we need to build everything's thrown up and now we have to build it we have to create it that's why we're calling the young builders
builders you know everything's being thrown up in the air and the question is what will you build
so I love it Katherine Austin Fitz thank Thank you very much. God bless you.
