Chapter 1: The global oil crisis
And we are back. I am Brandon Wert, co-host of the Mario Knoff program.
Check out the YouTube page. Like, subscribe, follow there, click the little bell that'll let you know whenever we post new videos. I am joined
now by Professor Michael Hudson. He's a Wall Street economist and I love it and a critic. Uh, Professor, thanks for doing this.
Good to be here.
So, um, we're looking at a pretty bizarre situation wherein it seems like
the markets are a little bit out of sync with the reality of what's going on in the straight of Hormuz. It looks like
we're running out of oil. The straight the strategic petroleum reserve is at its lowest. Not just ours, it looks like a lot of them except China's. Um the
what's going on with the oil market, professor?
Uh there's an illusion somehow that the uh as long as there could be a
resumption in trade through Hermuz that somehow everything is going to go back to normal. But it's not going to go back
to normal as almost all of the people who have actually been following it is because there's been an awful lot of destruction uh of oil. And all of that
uh is means that there's probably going to be a shortage of oil and especially refined oil, diesel oil and airplane
fuel that is going to be lasting well into at least next year 2027. Certainly
by the end of this year you're going to have prices going up. So we're in a kind of interregnum, an intermediate period
right now where the prices are being in the short term kept down by the fact that you just mentioned the US's uh
releasing its petroleum reserve and Trump has got European countries to
begin to sell their petroleum reserves to the United States very largely over
the next four-month period to help keep down uh diesel prices here. Well, this
is going to uh cause an immense hurt uh of the European balance of payments
because when when the reserves are as low as they can go, you're going to have European countries replenishing their
own petroleum reserves at much much higher prices for the diesel oil. So foreign balance of payments are going to
be squeezed uh very much and uh the United States also is
going to find that payments for oil are squeezed and this already has squeezed
American agriculture. Uh the prices of fertilizer that are made out of gas are going up. The price of diesel fuel
that's used for the harvesting machinery is up. So already you were having farmers saying, "Well, m we're not going
to be able to make a profit by planting crops for this coming year because of the oil uh crisis that we expect to
continue uh for quite a while, increasing our costs. So you're going to have American farm exports not be as
strong as they were before. But of course, other countries are in the same boat. So world agricultural prices are going to go up. So everything is going
to be uh costs and prices uh are going to be going up together and it's uh going to be almost a free-for-all
between Europe, the United States, Asia, global south countries as who can maneuver as best they can to cope with
this economic disaster that not only affects uh oil prices and the balance of payments, but interest rates, exchange
rates and uh uh the entire economic system is being thrown into disarray uh with all of this.
It is a perfect storm uh that is brewing and it was all brought on by a decision to start a nonpopular war in February.
Um at least I think it a lot of it was.
Let me just give a programming note here. Um the audience members in the subscription chat be feel free to put
your questions for the professor in uh Lisa's going to pick the top questions and in the last 10 minutes or so of the
episode today we'll ask the audience questions of the professor so we can get his insight into what you're concerned about. But let me just circle back to um
Chapter 2: Weaponizing the oil trade
some of the breaking news coming out not of the Middle East right now, which there's a lot, but the last 24 hours in
the Ukraine war, professor, we've seen a major attack from Ukraine targeting one
of Moscow's major refineries. Uh it was an oil storage facility they blew up.
They did not shut the refinery down completely. I think they damaged it.
It's part of the Trans Neft network. Um and then there was also these attacks against grain shippers in the Sea of
Azoth with the drones. So how is that impacting uh the world? This has gone uh
been going on for quite a while. uh Trump and uh the the US CIA uh basically
from Germany has been directing the Ukrainian missiles specifically against
uh Russian uh oil refineries to prevent Russia from supplying diesel fuels to
other countries. uh the United the a centerpiece of American foreign policy for many decades now has been to control
the oil trade and to control the currencies in which this trade is conducted uh by the United States. And
you in order to control world oil and to monopolize it, the United States has had to block other countries from buying oil
and gas from Russia, from uh Iran, and from uh from Venezuela in the past. So
the the the centerpiece of American foreign policy is to use the oil trade as a choke point so that Trump can then
go to other countries as he's just gone to Europe and said, "Whoa, now you notice that uh we've blocked off your
ability to buy Russian uh diesel and Russian oil uh just in case uh you had any desire to do that. So, you're going to be uh pretty much dependent on us.
And if you're going to want us to help you later by exporting uh oil from
ourselves, from Venezuela or any of our allied countries, uh you'll have to
support our American foreign policy, especially the war in Iran and our
isolation of Russia, Iran, and Chinese economies. So all of this is part of the
Trump's attempt to uh isolate countries he designates as enemies. He wants to control the oil trade because it's it it
has been probably the single most uh remunerative element of the United States balance and payments for the last century.
So this is part of a you're saying a concerted kind of covert strategy. It's not random. It's been very overt, very
overt. Uh, Secretary of the Treasury Bessant, uh, a few months ago came out and said, right after the, uh, US
seizure of Venezuela, Bessant said, "Here's what we're going to do to Iran and even Russia. We're going to do to
them what we did to Venezuela. Number one, we're going to uh either seize their oil or if we can't control their
oil, we will destroy their oil export capacity by uh bombing it. Uh once we
gain control of their oil, number one, we're going to make sure that all this oil is priced in dollars, not Chinese
currency, not foreign currency, but in dollars. with these dollars having to be recycled into the US economy. So the
United States benefits not only from its own oil sectors exports of oil and its
earnings on foreign oil but from all the foreign countries uh Venezuela other countries that ex export oil. They're
supposed to keep the savings from their oil and gas in the United States coming right in. They they keep they price
their oil and gas in dollars and they s they keep all of the savings of their export uh sales in dollar investments.
Uh large if it's a government uh owns the oil, the government tends to buy US
treasury securities or leaves the money in US banks and uh invests in US financial firms. That's what Saudi
Arabia did. And all of that's what's being frozen right now by the uh oil war and the destruction of Saudi Arabia's oil export capacity.
So because I hear what you're saying and I've heard other guests say this as well, but it it doesn't to me it seems
like this is going to backfire. China has has significant refining capacity that they're not really doing yet using
yet. It's something like 30% they're not using of their we're at capacity. We couldn't absorb any excess even if we wanted to. Russia's having their refineries shut down because of the war.
Um this plan of of theirs, is it going to work, do you think? Well, if you what is
Chapter 3: US strategy backfiring
Besson's response is he said, well, if we find any uh western firm and uh
sending payments to China for China's uh exports of refined oil that most of
which uh is it's buying from Iran right now, then we're going to impose financial sanctions against that country
and freeze their dollar holdings. This is it. Uh and so Trump is and Bustant have in in essence tried to isolate all
the other countries from the US. And what he's done is isolate the United States economy from them. It's that's what you mean by backfired. He's
isolating the United States by trying to isolate others countries and other countries cannot afford just to say
we're going to give up uh if we can we can buy get oil and gas for 17th of the price from Russia that we have to pay
you. Why should we uh why shouldn't we follow our economic self-interest in all this? Well, Trump says because we'll
threaten you and we'll cut you off from access to the US market. will cut you off from being able to use uh the uh
dollar area the whole international financial system that's conducted in in dollars. Well, the result is other
countries uh are have stopped accumulating their reserves in the form of US dollars. What are they going to
do? they're uh largely foreign currencies like strong currencies like
the Chinese R&B or even buying gold, something that is not dollars. And so,
uh, what Trump has done is killed this, uh, America's free lunch of running a financial system that other countries
were willing to save all of their balance of payments earnings. Their net uh, accumulation in their central bank
reserves had been sent into the US economy in government securities, not only Treasury securities, but federal
agencies that paid a little bit more of Fanny May, etc., or even uh US uh
private sector investments. All of that has been cut off. So uh what Trump has done is end America's free lunch of
getting all of these dollars that are other countries earnings on their exports of industrial goods, exports of
whatever thing. They've made the dollar unsafe. So, we went from make America great again to make America last.
That's pretty much and you've seen what's happened right now. America's strongest ally in the Persian Gulf was
Saudi Arabia and Saudi Arabia has paid the price of having its
a lot of its refinery facilities and US investments there bombed by Iran saying and on the principle that Iran says if
we can't export our oil neither can Saudi Arabia or the United Arab Emirates or you know anyone else in the Persian
Gulf. And it's done this because it's trying to get the whole rest of the world of oil importing countries to have
a stake in opposing the oil war and saying look uh we want to restore normaly of where we export oil and we
use our oil uh export uh proceeds to develop our economy. uh if if uh if you
join the United States in blocking us by bombing our oil refinery and oil production facilities and bombing our
country, then uh you're going to have to suffer from the world depression that's going to be created by the
interruption of all of these oil exports.
Chapter 4: The risk of global depression
Do you think we are heading toward a global depression? Yes, there's no way around it. The prices of oil are going
up so high that if if you want to see a picture of what'll happen, look at what happened in Germany after February 2022
when Germany stopped importing Russian gas and oil. uh it's gas and oil prices
soared and u the result has been to make many German industries unprofitable
especially the glass industry for instance used gas to melt the glass to make to make the glass the car makers uh
all all the industrial sector of Germany uses power and there's a direct connection in every country between
energy use per worker and productivity uh per capita. uh and all of this is uh
all of a sudden this became uh so expensive to sustain that uh once they
had to shift to America's liqufied natural gas instead of Russian gas through the one pipeline that was still
working not to mention the other pipelines and trade then uh all the German economy could not compete and
it's been shrinking steadily since uh 2020 22 and has been in a corresponding
political crisis as you're seeing today with how unpopular uh the pro-war party of uh merits is in Germany. Well,
imagine that that's happening all over the world. uh as uh oil prices going up uh especially for the global south
countries of Africa, South America if they in order
to pay for the oil imports that they need to heat their homes and light their
homes and fuel their factories. They're going to have to uh either have have to pay more and they're going to have to
provide subsidies. How are they going to do this? They can't do this and also pay all of the foreign debts that they owe.
So you're what's going to happen?
There's I there's no overt discussion of this yet, but you can be sure that any balance of payments analyst is saying
how can you pay more for your oil uh imports and the rising food uh import
prices as you pointed out uh and still afford to pay all the debt service on your foreign bonds. Well, uh, the the
global south and global majority countries can say, well, the the United States under not only Trump, but Biden
before him has started this oil war, and that war is what's prevented us from
earning the dollars to pay the dollar payments on our foreign currency bonds.
So, we're going to have to have a moratorum on on this. The alternative to a moratorum is they're going to have to
do what victims of the International Monetary Fund have to do. Impose austerity. And the austerity will be
okay, we're going to impose a depression on ourselves in order to afford the food
and the power of oil that we need uh just in order to pay our foreign uh debt
dollar debts. Countries are not going to do that, remain in power. They're all going to look like the German economy if they try to do that.
Chapter 5: Pre-revolutionary Europe
And professor, I just got off talking with Mario in our session. you know, we do a daily session news wrap-up. Um, toward the end there, we were talking
about France and Germany and what's going on in some of these European countries. And my thesis to Mario and he thought it was too extreme. I said, "We
are in pre-revolutionary conditions in much of Europe." And I think also, by the way, there's some funny stuff happening in Canada with Alberta. I
think there's some weird stuff happening here in the United States. Do you think that we are because of this economic situation in pre-revolutionary conditions in Europe?
You're basically correct. There's one thing missing from this pre-revolutionary condition and that is what's the alternative plan.
In order to have a revolution, you have to be a proposal for an alternative. And I'm the almost surprising thing is that
while there is an impetus for a revolutionary condition, I don't see any proposals for an alternative really.
There's nothing coming from the bricks.
The there's uh the the only workable alternative would be a full-scale break.
And uh there countries are being forced to choose either as uh George W. Bush said, "Either
you're with us or against us. Either you choose the US market and all of the demands that Trump has imposed, the
tariff demands he's imposed, the oil uh demands for tribute that he's deposed or
they're going to turn towards the more rapidly growing economies mainly of Asia uh the China, Russia, and potentially
Iran. Uh and uh how The normal expectation is well ultimately countries are going to act in their own
self-interest. But that isn't what's been happening. They because what is their self-interest if their self-interest says we're going to have
to create an alternative to the International Monetary Fund to uh some institution overseeing how much foreign
debt can be paid? how how the some al you've had speeches by uh President
Putin of Russia and by China and also by uh other countries saying well the United Nations is supposed to prevent
the kind of thing that's happening today but it's been paralyzed by the US control of the United Nations and uh
we're the United Nations doesn't have any means of enforcing these violations of the charter the viol violation of
natural national sovereignty where every country is supposed to be able to trade with whoever it wants. Free trade uh buy
your oil from whoever you want. Russia, Iran, sell it to whoever you want, China, uh other countries, uh all that's
blocked. The law of the sea is being blocked by uh the the US bombing and
NATO bombing Russian tankers in the Baltic. Russian tankers uh elsewhere uh
Iranian uh tankers uh the law of the sea is being the law of war is being violated attacking countries without
pre-warning and attacking civilians and in fact focusing on attacking civilians
hoping that somehow this will demoralize their populations uh and convince the Iranians maybe we need a regime change
and appoint the sha or some other pro- US ruler so America will stop bombing our schools and our children. Well,
that's not reality. That's not Obviously, he's galvanized all of their mutual support. So,
how are countries going to create a whole alternative set of institutions to what exists today? That's what is so
daunting to the revolution that uh uh you're seeing the seeds being planted for.
I wonder if the real revolution will be in the form of these countries breaking
with the so-called western consensus and saying we're we're we're going to do business with Eurasia because that's
where the future is. You're already even seeing, by the way, the Russians are making their own Pacific pivot. you know, they I know that they're bogged
down in Ukraine, but you look at the Russian interest in developing their far east and their their closeness with with
China. Uh that looks like a pivot away from the West itself, you know, on their
own. So, um I agree with you. I think I think there is I wouldn't be surprised, by the way, professor, if in 10 years
the United States is is doing more deals with China and we're bringing in Chinese BYD cars and whatnot because we can't compete anymore uh in these industries.
Chapter 6: Audience Q&A session
Let me before we uh I want to spend the next 10 or 15 minutes. We got some great audience questions, Lisa, our producer saying. So, we're going to open up to
the audience. Lisa, why don't you throw up that first question there, please, from the audience, and I'll read it out to the professor. Okay, this is from returning uh uh viewer ASFQ.
I'm sorry, guys, I'm not going to read that whole name. You know who you are.
Do you guys think that the Iran Venezuela war was the attempt by the US to control world oil and use that to
bargain with China on rare earth minerals? Do you think that is the case, Mr. Professor? uh silly as it it seems.
Yes. Uh obviously uh America doesn't have a strong bargaining thing. I want to say one thing. I agree with you what
you've said about the break from the west. That's what I've been writing about on my website on all of the articles that I've been writing. That's
exactly what is happening. Other countries cannot afford to remain in a West that is controlled by the United
States. uh with uh Europe being basically reduced to the position of being economic satellites, not having their own agency.
Professor, most Americans can't afford to stay in the West either. I mean, it's, you know, so uh that's
phenomenally. Yes. And by the way, I've often said, uh I don't even know what the West is anymore. Uh you know, I
don't even think America is a western country. Uh but that's another discussion for another day. Uh Lisa, what do we have? What's the next uh viewer question for the professor?
Okay, this is from ULA LA. Uh, thanks for sending this in. Greetings from Romania. Do you, professor, think those
currently leading Europe will succeed in federalizing the European Union?
No chance of it. The U the European Union is if anything breaking up because the three major leaders Meritz and uh
Macron in France and the whoever the revolving door British prime minister Labor prime ministers is uh is all in
favor of confrontation uh with Russia and is willing to sacrifice their own industry, their own agriculture to serve
uh the United States war on the rest of the world and uh they that's crazy. They're uh you're you're
having opinion polls oppose all of the existing governments and it's as if we're they're having to
wait the next year, maybe two years until finally there's an election where they can vote the Christian Democrats
out of power in Germany. Macron's so-called socialists out of power in France and uh have the just bounce back
and forth between Britain's labor and conservative parties for whoever isn't without really uh having an idea of uh
uh what can be a federally federal Europe that everybody agrees on putting
its own growth first. The one thing that European leaders want is America's growth comes first. Our careers come
first. Our careers have been promoted by the United States and its NOS's have been nurturing us since they their
talent agents found us as opportunists uh when we were in college and uh we're going to go for where our bread is
buttered. Europe doesn't seem to have any real leaders with an economic platform of what is a different Europe
going to be all about. So, we're back in your revolutionary situation. It should be a revolutionary situation waiting for
not only a leader but for an uh a doc a a set of idea ideas and institutions for what'll the revolution be all about.
Yes. Yes. I agree. I agree. Uh, do we have another question, Lisa? Okay, this is from Aaron Webster 33. Thanks for the
question, Aaron. Uh how would you explain professor the disconnect between current crack spreads physical oil and
paper oil prices throughout the last two months?
Shortterm versus long term uh traders live in the short term and uh uh the the
prices that are quoted you know in the Wall Street Journal every day for Brent crude. This is these are for oil for
trading paper claims on oil, not for actually claiming buying and possession
of the oil itself. The there there's a disconnect as I think you began the whole show about between the financial
markets for trade shortterm and what's looming for the long term. and uh everybody uh the the cost of trying to
buy oil or diesel forward, the cost of having that option is so great that um
it's there's no real market in it. So there there isn't a market reflecting the
economic reality that you and I and most of uh the commentators on the internet have all seen coming very clearly. You
know, it's funny. We're living in a media environment where commentators on the internet are the ones setting, you know, breaking the the uh the news cycle. Uh it's it's kind of fun to see.
Um do we have another question for the professor Lisa?
We do. This is from ASX OGZ. Thank you for your question. Uh what economic impact, professor, will artificial
intelligence have on people's 401k in the near future?
uh that all depends on how they've invested their for 401k. Uh there's a
lot of investment thinking that uh the uh artificial intelligence has got to
make a lot of money because it it already has borrowed I think uh $6
trillion of costs of developing research and development.
Y but there's not a market price. So there's a value for all of this if they actually spend the cost, but there's no
market price reflecting this value. How are they going to recognize it and uh in practice? We don't see the returns yet,
uh the profits yet. And uh how on earth can they make a profit if they're not able to build the huge computer uh camps
around cities that there's already uh plans on largecale public opposition to.
It's a it's a whole it would take me 15 minutes to explain why this is a fantasy. But uh
I'll just say one thing there there's a whole different philosophy of investing in a technology today. Uh that there was
when I was a futurist 50 years ago back in the 70s just about everybody saw there was going to be a rising role of
government for new technologies. They were thinking of outer space largely and atomic technology. But same thing goes
for uh this uh what I I think Bjinsky called it technonic uh technology leading for today. The
costs of research and development are so large that uh the uh it can't be done by
private corporations because private corporations have to make a profit and they use their profits to pay dividends
to the stockholders or stock buybacks to support their stock prices. And if private corporations have to spend it on
R&D, well, why have they all been cutting it back since the 1980s?
Thatcher, Reagan, the whole neoliberal uh corporations should be run for stockholders is based on living in the
short run supporting stock. Well, how are they going to supply R&D? Well, what's unique about all of this uh
information technology and automatic uh intelligence is uh they've actually borrowed corporate money to uh make this
uh R&D without any sense of balance that the the costs of R&D are often larger
than the volume of profits that can be made. That's why corporations for a
century have asked the government to take the lead in setting up think tanks and R&D like developed the atomic bomb
uh like developed outer space because private corporations can't do it. uh the government one should develop a
technology and once it's commercializ able to be commercialized turn it over to the companies to commercialize and
make a profit. But that's done. They put the uh they put the research before all of this and all of a sudden they're saying how on earth can all of this debt
from these companies being paid, how can they where are they going to get the money unless they charge such huge
monopoly prices for uh artificial intelligence that uh they there's no way they can compete with say China's
open-source systems that it's providing the whole world freely. So there's no uh
this is talk about the world breaking away from the the west. It's a whole different philosophy of investing in technology.
Well, I should say the Chinese model, we'll have to wrap it up now, but the Chinese model uh is very similar to the old model the the Americans used in the 40s and 50s to build out the telecoms.
It was a partnership between private and public. The old Bell Labs model, if you will.
Yeah. There's a there's a great book by Mariana Mazakado. I recommend everybody get the entrepreneurial state. And I think she has another one that came out
lately, but but the one that I read was The Entrepreneurial State. Really a phenomenal book. I don't agree with her on everything, but I thought that was a
great book. And I should also say you have a great website out uh the it's under your name, Michael Hudson, uh.com.
Yeah, Michael Hyphen Hudson.
Yes. Michael Hyphen Hudson. I was getting ready to correct myself. Yes.
And um uh and uh that was a phenomenal essay the team sent me which is what this
section was ba based on or the segment empires run out runs out of oil.
Professor, thank you so much for your time. I'm sorry this was a truncated episode. I have to go pick up my kids from school though. Um so we will
definitely have you back on with me soon to have a longer discussion about revolution. I should also say, professor, for your interest, it looks
like the AFD in Saxony has been elevated to the presidency. I'm
seeing this breaking news here. Um, Tobias Roush has been elected speaker of the Saxony Anhalt legislature with 48
votes, nine more than the AFD's 39 seats. So, Roush received Okay. Okay.
So, uh, they've secured the presidency of a state parliament is what the news is. All right. Well, thank you, professor. He is Professor Michael
Hudson, Wall Street economist and critic. We'll have him back on with me for a longer discussion. I promise you that. Uh, I'm Brandon Wyert, we the
Brandon, TwitterX, the Wiker Brief on Substack. Thank you so much and I'll see you in an hour. Bye-bye.
￼
Sync to video time

