######## 5 when-allies-become-assets (Aug) — Hudson's turns only

It’s good to be here with all of these news happening. The stock market’s up. Everybody seems confident that there’s not going to be much of a disturbance in world inflation or exchange rates from all of this. It’s just amazing. Well, we’re talking about the war that’s going on, the market behaving as if, well, it’s really not going to matter.

There has been a long plan.

It’s very easy to dismiss Trump and say, Trump’s losing the war with Iran. The whole memorandum of understanding, in effect, seemed to be a capitulation to Iran. And you can see that it seems futile for Trump to try to get in deeper and deeper and deeper. So the assumption is, since he’s getting the U.S. in deeper and deeper, he must not have a plan because it’s not working.

But there is a plan. Not only Trump, but especially his Secretary of the Treasury, Bessent, have been very openly expressing what this is. Trump himself was outlining the plan already in his first administration, way back in 2018. He said that the number one aim was that he saw that America’s military spending abroad, an attempt to enforce a U.S.-centered world order, dollarization, U.S. financial markets, had been since 1950 the main balance of payments drain on the United States. It was foreign military spending that forced the United States off gold in 1971.

Well, from 1971 till very recently, what took the place of gold? The U.S. spent money into foreign markets. Foreign markets were recycling this to the United States. At first, local recipients of dollars, companies, economies, governments would turn over the dollars to the central bank.

What would the central bank do? Well, as we’ve discussed before, and as I discussed in my book, Superimperialism, foreign central banks bought U.S. Treasury IOUs, Treasury bonds, securities, notes, short term. Then in the last few years, instead of this intergovernmental central bank recycling, you had foreign private investors buying U.S. stocks, U.S. bonds. All of this money was recycled into the U.S. stock market that was mainly being driven up on debt.

All of this means of somehow maintaining America’s domination is now called into question. What Trump had said is: the first thing we want to do is stop all of this military spending we’re doing abroad. He talked about withdrawing his troops from NATO already in his first administration, and he’d singled out OPEC. He said, We’re spending a lot of money in defending the Middle East, West Asia, and they really have to somehow end up paying us.

Of course, that was the whole idea of the petrodollar agreement of 1974, 1975. That OPEC could charge whatever it wanted for its oil, and it would reinvest its oil earnings in the U.S. financial market, stocks and bonds. All of that was working. But still, the United States had, in the interim since the 1970s, lost its industrial power, lost its creditor power of turning into a debtor country. It needed a new strategy.

Last year, at the end of 2025, the U.S. spelled out the strategy. And it was, well, we can’t support our control of the world economy anymore by industry or by even our financial markets. We have to establish a series of monopolies to make America a rentier economy.

The three sectors that the United States wanted to control have been, number one, the long-standing sector of oil. We’ve discussed that before. America wants to control the oil trade so that its allies cannot deal with other producers of oil that would interfere with the U.S. monopoly.

While almost all the attention of the shows that you’ve been doing and that have been in the media have been focused on the fighting against Iran and isolating Iranian oil, especially Iranian oil exports to China, there’s been a similar U.S. attack bombing Russian oil refineries and gas refineries through Ukraine. The United States has been providing Ukraine with guidance and missiles to show just exactly where to bomb so that Russia will not be the beneficiary of this rising, the imminent rise in oil prices that’s going to result from closing of the Strait of Hormuz for 20% of the world’s oil trade, and now another 5% of the world’s oil trade, as the Yemenis have cut back Saudi Arabia’s West Coast export facilities.

The world is facing a very sharp rise in oil prices. The United States wants to be the beneficiary of this, especially through the exportation of liquefied natural gas. It wants to make sure that it will be the beneficiary of this rise in oil prices as a result of the war in West Asia, not Russia. And it still wants to be able to isolate China from receiving this.

Trump said early this year, repeatedly, that he wants to make the Arab OPEC countries pay for the Americas’ military costs there. Well, suddenly, Trump was inspired by the fact that Iran now wants to impose tolls on traffic through the Strait of Hormuz that Iran has estimated will yield it about $40 billion a year.

Trump finally has found a way to charge the OPEC countries for the costs of the military, he calls it defense or guardian angel of defending these countries from Iran and any other attacker. And he said a few days ago, there are going to be tolls in the Strait of Hormuz. Forget international law about no tolls being allowed to be imposed on international waters. There are going to be tolls. We will get them, not Iran.

Immediately, Secretary of State Rubio said, wait a minute, if you’re saying that America will get the tolls instead of Iran, then that justifies Iran’s claim that the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea is dead. The UN rules that international waters cannot have tolls unless they’ve been grandfathered in by signatories to the UN agreement, such as Turkey with access to the Black Sea, Egypt with its canal, the Panama Canal. Unless they’ve grandfathered these in, international waters can’t have tolls. Well, Rubio said, you can’t say this. We don’t want to give in anything on international law that we can still use to try to prevent Iran from getting the tolls.

Trump then backpedaled. The next day, a few days ago, he gave a press conference saying, alright, we’ve made a new agreement with the OPEC Arab countries. They are going to pay us for the cost of our defending them as their guardian angel, but not through tolls. They’re going to invest in the United States, just as way back after 1975, Saudi Arabia and the OPEC countries invested their oil export earnings here. They’re going to invest in U.S. industry as partners.

Already this had begun to take form. Amazon, for instance, had made a huge investment in Bahrain in automatic intelligence, these huge fields of computers that are using energy. And that is the second element of what the U.S. wants to monopolize.

In addition to controlling the oil trade and essentially obtaining all of the recycled oil export revenues for its own economy, the U.S. wants to control a monopoly in information technology and associated computerization and the internet. This is why what has been stabilizing the U.S. balance of payments has been a huge private foreign investment and government investment, including the UAE, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain, into the U.S. Golden Seven stocks of information technology, computer chips, Amazon, Google and all of the internet and public discussions, X, et cetera, Facebook, all of these.

The problem is now that these stocks are going down because analysts have found out: well, in order for these companies to make this vast increase in earnings in monopoly rents that they’ve expected as a result of building huge information technology centers, we can’t do that in the United States because we don’t have the electricity and we don’t have the water to cool the electricity chips that make all this intelligence. So, just as the United States has offshored its industry, its manufacturing industry, it’s now offshoring its automatic intelligence monopoly.

Where is it going to offshore it to? Well, to the OPEC countries, especially to the Arab OPEC countries. That’s why, as I said, Amazon in Bahrain. In the last two days, the United States has made a deal with the UAE saying, you can be partners with us in huge U.S. investments in building these industries, this information technology, where you are. You won’t have to export your energy at all. You’ll provide your energy domestically to power this huge American investment in information technology.

Well, a few days ago, Iran focused its bombing on Amazon’s investment in information technology in Bahrain.

Iran’s position is: well, what’s our strategy? Number one, we want to drive the United States out of the whole West Asian region. The first thing we’ve got to do is drive out the military bases. It’s done that through all the military bases except Israel. It’s bombed them.

And the United States Army, the military is in complete agreement. Okay, we’re going to withdraw our military bases there. We can’t afford them anymore, mainly because we can’t protect them from the Iranian missiles that have shown that they can penetrate our defense at will. And Iran has just finished in the last three days bombing what’s left of the American military bases.

But Iran then says, if we are going to drive the United States out of West Asia, it can’t just be the military bases. We have to end the whole economic and financial symbiosis between the United States and these local monarchies there. Under this symbiosis of investing their oil export proceeds in American stocks and bonds and partnerships with American AI industry, their hearts are going to follow where the money is. We’ve got to prevent this economic symbiosis. There’s not going to be any linkage at all between the U.S. economy and these economies, so that we can then essentially free the region away from the United States. This is really what the war is all about.

It’s been depicted as an existential war on Iran’s part because the United States wanted to do to Iran just what it did to Venezuela. It wanted a very quick war as it had in Venezuela. You kidnap the president, you have a regime change that agrees to turn over its oil to the United States. All of Venezuela’s oil export revenues are put into a U.S. bank account that’s run by the U.S. Treasury.

A few months ago, the Secretary of the Treasury Bessent said, we’re going to do the same thing in Iran once we defeat it. Just before the June 17th Memorandum of Understanding was signed, Hegseth came out and said, we’re going to conquer Iran and have a regime change that will put all of Iran’s oil revenues in a treasury account. This account will have to be spent in the United States to buy U.S. exports and U.S. goods. Then the negotiators worked out this memorandum of agreement.

It looks as if Iran has just withdrawn from that agreement a few days ago, because it became apparent that the United States never had any intention at all of actually meeting the terms of the agreement. For one thing, the whole agreement was to be put in motion by this payment of at least a token sum of $12 billion of the $100 billions of dollars of Iranian savings that the United States had told its allies, especially in the Emirates and the Arab OPEC countries, to confiscate.

Well, Hegseth said, he’s worked with the Emirates to say, don’t give them a penny. So now the Emirates and Bahrain and other countries have said, we’re not going to give return any of this 12 billion, much less 100 billion, to Iran. We’re going to say, Iran, you’ve attacked us. When we attack you, you fought back. You’re fighting back as an attack on us. We want reparations for the cost that we’ve had to suffer from your defending yourself against the U.S. and Israeli and our own military attacks on you. Hegseth had spelled all this out, actually on July 11th, when the negotiators drafted the agreement that was signed on the 17th. It’s obvious this wasn’t going to be enacted.

Regarding letting Iran administer trade in the Strait of Hormuz, the United States never had any intention at all of letting Iran charge any tolls or even administrative fees for registering the ships, for coordinating the ships, anything that administration of a strait would do.

The U.S. Navy came in and protected ships to try to break the Iranian control by turning off their transponders and sailing close to the Oman shore and saying, even though the memorandum of understanding said Iran will govern all shipping through the Strait of Hormuz, this doesn’t apply to Iran’s own territorial waters.

There are going to be two routes through the Strait of Hormuz. There’s going to be the Iranian shore route that’s not international waters and it’s under Iranian waters. And as for the in-between international waters, that doesn’t apply because the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, UNCLOS, prevents any country from charging tolls that isn’t already grandfathered into the clause. The U.S. said, well, we never signed that agreement. Iran may have, but we haven’t. And Iran is in a state of war with us.

In any case, that this law of the sea doesn’t say you can’t charge tolls does not preclude us [Iran] and other countries from defending ourselves in a state of war. Oman is in a state of war with us because Oman is hosting U.S. military bases from which missiles and bombs are being sent into our territory. So of course we have control over the strait. This is what Iran is claiming.

When the 60-day ceasefire period was to be over, Iran had planned to impose these tolls. Trump said, no, you’re not going to impose the tolls. We’re going to impose the tolls to reimburse ourselves for all of the cost. And we’re going to get 20% of the oil export proceeds of the Arab countries who export this oil. 20% of the value of this is all going to be paid for us as a toll. Well, that’s what the immediate legal fight is about. There goes the international law of the sea. There goes the memorandum of understanding.

You see that this is the aim of Trump. He’s attacking Iran not simply because he’s deluded by his belief that somehow we can destroy Iran’s military, we can destroy their defenses, we can destroy their missiles, we can hit the civilians and the hospitals and the schools and demoralize the population so much that they will want to put a U.S. regime in so we’ll stop making them so unhappy. This is all an illusion.

But for the U.S., this fight against Iran is existential for the United States plan of how to control the world economy, as it is for Iran to defend its own sovereignty and existence against the United States’ attempt to invade it, break it up by trying to get the invasions from Balochistan, from the Kurds and others. This is really what the fight is all about and why it’s going to go on and on. The process of going on and on will block the oil trade, leading to a stoppage of oil, leading to the world production crisis and financial crisis that we’ve discussed in our earlier shows.

You’re right to have mentioned transportation. To answer your question, in order to impose the U.S. control of the world oil trade to get its income for itself and the artificial intelligence computer technology trade, the U.S. does need to control shipping and international transportation as well. Because how can you export your oil without doing it by ships or by overland means such as pipelines?

The very first fight that Trump picked with Europe – and America’s main, I won’t say enemy, but its main opponent is, of course, EuropeJapan, and its other allies – before it fights its real enemies, Russia, China, and Iran, and the global majority, it wants to tighten its control over Europe and make sure that Europe is locked in to dependence on America’s liquefied natural gas and transportation.

This required two things. Number one, the blowing up of the [Nord Stream] pipeline, as we’ve discussed. But number two, what you’re seeing now, the constant bombing of Russian shipping through the Baltic. For a long time, Russia exported its oil through the Latvian East Coast, Ventspils went through the Baltic. Russia is now still exporting oil through the Baltic. And you have Estonia, Latvia permitting NATO basically to stop Russian oil exports through the Baltic.

All of that violates the UN law of the sea. That’s not free trade. The United States objective now is saying: In 1945, we supported free trade because we were the beneficiaries. When England promoted free trade in the 19th century, that was called free trade imperialism. That’s what America did after 1945. But now we’re not for free trade anymore.

Because if we can’t have free trade by other countries trading among themselves and being independent of the United States, if we can’t control foreign oil as a rival, we will destroy that oil. We will destroy Russian ability to refine its oil. We will destroy Russian ability to transport its oil to other countries. We will destroy its pipelines. The same with Iran. We will destroy Iranian ports and Iranian shipping as we’ve been doing so that it can’t export either to China or to India or anywhere else. So the control of oil and control of transportation goes together.

That’s why the first fight Trump had with Europe was over Greenland. We’ve got to take control of Greenland because then if we can have a link from Greenland to Iceland to Britain, then we can block access from the North Atlantic Ocean into the Arctic. And if we can block that access, then Europe and West Asia won’t have access to the Arctic trade to avoid having to go around through South Africa or having to go around the U.S. controlled Panama Canal. We’ve been able to block the oil trade and any other trade from there.

I’m a little surprised. Russia has been trying to arrange with China the Power of Siberia pipeline. They’re saying, the United States is trying to, in violation of the law of the sea, in violation of all of the free trade rules, it’s preventing us from shipping our oil. So the only way to get around it is through a pipeline. What China has been trying to do through its [Belt] and Road Initiative is essentially integrate Eurasia, the whole Asian continent, so that it doesn’t need to have the Mackinder strategy of controlling the periphery.

But China and Russia have argued over what’s going to be the price for the oil. Well, Russia quite correctly sees, the price of oil is going to go up because it looks now like the United States is goading Iran and the Arab OPEC countries to destroy each other’s oil production. Well, NATO is fighting against Russia to destroy its oil export capacity. Without OPEC oil, there’s going to be a huge oil shortage, and the United States will supply this basically through shipping gas to countries that need this energy.

This is why Trump has fought against alternatives to oil in the form of wind energy and solar energy, which China has dominated in. So that’s the link between transport.

For your question, how can this succeed? Let’s start with America’s fight against Europe to subordinate its allies, Europe and Japan, to the United States. The whole assumption, the materialist approach to history, is that countries are going to act in their economic self-interest.

Europe isn’t acting in its economic self-interest. Self-interest would be to get inexpensive energy to power its industry and avoid the deindustrialization that you’re seeing in Germany and other NATO countries. It can’t afford the higher prices of oil. Its chemical industry can’t afford to operate at a profit when there is an interruption of the derivatives of the oil trade: sulfur to make sulfuric acid for mining, and fertilizer out of natural gas.

Not to mention helium. One of the first production sites that Iran hit was in Qatar, a helium production that was itself 20% of the world’s helium trade: totally destroyed. It cost, I think, $5 billion to install originally and took a number of years to install. All of this is unavailable for the next few years, causing a helium shortage. China and the United States are major producers of helium. China has stopped its helium exports, and the United States now is using its helium monopoly as a lever of international control. So the United States retains a lot of levers and control.

The fourth monopoly that we didn’t discuss is the U.S. dollarization, the financial system monopoly. This is what we’ve been discussing for the last few shows that you’ve had me on. The United States tried to exclude its rivals from the SWIFT bank clearing system. China set up an alternative to that. Everything the United States has done by imposing financial sanctions on other countries says: well, we can cut off your financial payments.

How can there be an oil trade? How can there be a trade in industrial products if you can’t process the payment for it? You not only need to transport this trade, you need to transfer the monetary payments. So we’re controlling that system too. The whole American strategy is no longer a win-win strategy between it and the rest of the world. It’s the use of chokepoints to control the world economy, whether they can get oil and energy to power their factories and light their homes and supply their chemical and fertilizer industry, the information technology, and the grain.

To answer your question, the American strategy can only succeed as long as the United States can impose choke points on the entire world, either by imposing sanctions that other countries will not have an alternative means of becoming independent with their own alternative with the sanctions, their own payment system, such as China has been developing, their oil production, Russia and Iran, their transportation, the Arctic route of transport, and the Russian ability to fight NATO military attacks on Russian shipping through the Baltic and other areas, and U.S. attacks on shipping through the Indian Ocean that it’s been doing.

The answer to whether the U.S. can maintain its control and its new, almost neo-colonial imperialism, depends on its ability to make a win-lose trade on the world, whereby if you want oil, you’ll have to pay our monopoly oil prices and the profits that the oil producers make will all be invested in the United States or spent on U.S. exports. To ship, you’ll have to submit to U.S. permission to use U.S.-controlled ports or routes that we’re closing off. If you’re not subordinate to us for information technology, we’ve imposed sanctions.

Just yesterday, the United States lifted sanctions on exporting the most advanced computer chips to the Emirates. And it’s done that so that the Emirates can invest with the United States. This is tens of billions of dollars to create these new computer chip transfer centers like the Amazon cloud investment in Bahrain was supposed to have done. The idea is that somehow they’ve convinced the Emirates to throw in their lot with the United States. And the United States gave the Emirates this permission in exchange for its agreement to itself help the United States bomb Iran.

The success of this U.S. policy depends on how long can the Arab Middle East be ruled by these rotten semi-feudal monarchies? How long can the Emirates survive? How long can Jordan, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia itself survive when most of the population is either Palestinian or Indian, or you have a very unequal society by Emirates who basically control the economies and have thrown in their lot with the United States?

Almost every war, the backlash of a war, has been settled by huge political upheavals. World War I saw the end of many European monarchies and the transition to some sort of constitutional monarchy or quasi-democracy. The Ottoman Empire was broken up and made into colonies of Britain, France, who basically redrew the map, carved up the Ottoman Empire.

The question is, now that this war is over, is there going to be a similar political revolution throughout West Asia in establishing economies that actually use their oil, not to recycle their economic surpluses to the United States leader, not to fall into the position that countries like Germany or Britain are in as just being satellites of the United States, and certainly not Japan that America is trying to get rearmed to serve the United States.

Are they going to go down the same route as Japan, Britain, and Germany? Or are they somehow there going to be a social revolution there, like America feared that would be the case after World War II? Are we finally going to see the carve-up that occurred after World War I with the Sykes plan to redraw the lines and put in British and French-installed local monarchies? Are we finally going to see them brought into the modern progressive era?

That’s going to be part of the question: whether the United States plan can stop progress. Can the United States stop the rest of the world from acting in its own economic self-interest to promote its own development instead of being subservient to promote the U.S. economy, which will not use this income for its own development, but really just to increase its monopoly control and military threat to other countries? That’s really the question.

You mentioned war with Russia. That’s really the key.

How long will Russia stand, will Putin prevent the military in Russia from responding to the NATO attacks on its territory, the missile and drone attacks on its territory that are just hitting its refineries and now hitting civilian targets, hitting the drone attacks on Moscow, St. Petersburg, and the attempt by NATO to put more weapons in Finland and other Baltic countries? How long will Russia refrain from responding by doing what Putin had threatened to do i.e., to respond by bombing the factories that make the missiles that are bombing us, the factories in Germany or France or Britain that are providing the missiles?

Russia is now realizing, it’s not fighting against Ukraine. Ukraine is the arena for this fighting. The fight is with NATO. And Ukraine doesn’t matter. The Russian troops are moving westward in Ukraine. They’re moving towards taking over Odessa. They’re blocking Ukrainian access to Odessa and to export their own grain and sunflower oil and other materials. But this doesn’t prevent the NATO countries from just sending missiles from Ukraine into Russia.

The enemy isn’t really Ukraine any longer. It’s Germany, France, and Britain that are acting as U.S. satellites in attacking Russia and letting the United States plans. I think it’s in Wiesbaden and other cities where they are guiding the missiles that are hitting the [Ukrainian] missiles that are hitting Russia. I think the fact that they’re doing that is one reason that Russia is in a tit-for-tat response, saying, All right, we’re going to help provide Iran, if it needs it, with the satellite guidance for its bombs to fight you. That’s the escalation that’s occurring.

I see this escalation as: if it really is existential on both sides, then it’s going to continue to be very destructive, and the collateral damage will be the world economy, the Asian economy, Africa, and the global south that is not going to get the fertilizer, that’s going to reduce their crop, their ability to feed themselves, and they’ll essentially subject them to famine.

This year, 2026, is going to be a world historical year for the showdown when the dynamics that we’ve been discussing all come together.

Thank you for having me on, Glenn.

Transcription and Diarization: https://scripthub.dev/

######## 6 how-the-federal-reserve-learned-to-love-bubbles (Jul, with Desai) — Hudson's turns only

Good to be here. A lot of things are happening in the world, especially financially, that we should talk about.

Well, I’m glad we’re talking about Alan Greenspan because we’re still in the kind of era that he initiated. Back in the ’60s, I actually was saddled with having to work with him briefly. I was working at Chase Manhattan on the balance of payments of the oil industry, and Socony-Mobil insisted that we hire him to calculate the balance of payments and profits of the oil industry in Europe. Well, my boss, who had been recommended to Chase by Milton Friedman, told me, “Greenspan’s just a shill. He says whatever the clients want.” He was notorious for just having his reports up for sale.

We had a discussion with David Rockefeller, who said, “Well, people are not going to trust our study if Greenspan’s part of it. They’ll think we’re acting just as lobbyists for the oil industry.” So, my boss, John Deaver, asked me to check his work: “Can you see anything wrong with his statistics? I’m sure the little bastard did something in there somewhere.” That was how people talked about Greenspan in the 1960s. Well, sure enough, I found that he’d faked some figures from the European data. As a result, I was assigned to go over to his office and give him the news that he was off the project. I obtained some renown as the man who fired Alan Greenspan, but I was just the low man on the totem pole being told to do it.

Well, how did this person ever rise to be head of the Federal Reserve? That’s the question. The answer lies in the 1980s. The era when he emerged was very different from the 1960s. You had the era of Ronald Reagan, the Republicans, and the anti-federalists. Earlier this week, Matt Stoller had a great Substack report explaining how Newt Gingrich designed a whole strategy for the Republicans to shrink government, and what you do is shrink Congress. In the 1980s, for the first time, Congress was taken over by the Republican Party. What the Republicans did, Matt explains, was to cut back all the budgets for the government staff—the staffs of the representatives and senators who had been doing all the research to make sure they were anti-monopolists and acting in the public interest. All of that was unwound.

To quote briefly from his report: “In 1995, the Republican Party took control of the US House of Representatives, led by Newt Gingrich and a small group of right-wing politicians who called themselves ‘jihadists.’ These men sought to revamp a legislative chamber held by the Democrats since 1949.”

That was the environment in which they got Alan Greenspan appointed as head of the Federal Reserve. His job was basically to represent their clients—the commercial banks—not the economy at large. When people talk about an “independent” Federal Reserve, they mean independent from US policy; independent from congressional and presidential policy. Just days ago, you had the Supreme Court rule that Donald Trump can fire policymakers anywhere he wants in the US government, but not from the Federal Reserve. Its independence means that the banks are pretty independent of having money and credit operated and managed in the public interest.

Well, that’s what Alan Greenspan did. He deregulated everything. He sat there and let the huge savings and loan bubble explode. He let the 1998 dot-com bubble explode. That is exactly the same policy that we’re seeing today. The reason Greenspan got such a write-up of editorials and obituaries all over the press was because he opened the doors for this setup.

By being independent, the banking system in effect controls government tax policy, monetary policy, and the allocation of credit. Who gets the credit, and for what? Well, we know the credit is used to create a bubble. This is the result of all of these changes that occurred with Greenspan in the 1980s.

Yep, that’s right. That’s what the Federal Reserve has become. What we’re seeing today is the result of a total deregulation of the markets. Even the Financial Times and the Wall Street Journal are saying, “Wait a minute. You’re cutting capital requirements for the banks to lower the amount of reserves they have to hold against these loans.” These loans are being used primarily for the artificial intelligence sector, to buy back their own stocks, and to pay dividends. This is a bubble in the making, and that’s in the interest of banks. They make money when their credit creates a bubble. Their customers make money off the bubble, and out of those profits, they pay the banks back for the loans used to undertake debt leveraging.

You talked about monetary policy being in government hands. The job of the government is to run monetary policy in favor of economic growth for the whole society, which requires treating money and banking as a public utility. Instead, the Federal Reserve has been privatized. It’s not a public utility; it’s in the hands of central bank campaign contributors and the beneficiaries of the bubble.

We’re seeing the financialization of the economy, in contrast to countries that avoid financialization and follow an industrial policy, like China and many Asian nations.

You said something in passing that’s very important to explain for the audience, especially the foreign audience. You talked about commercial banking versus investment banking. These were two different worlds until Glass-Steagall was repealed. The commercial banking industry was a stayed industry, not very highly remunerated. Most of its credit went to real estate, some consumer credit, and corporate credit collateralized by tangible capital investment. The commercial banks didn’t have much to do with the stock market. That belonged to the investment banks.

The 1980s was the decade of Drexel Burnham and corporate takeovers. Before Drexel Burnham and its law firm, Skadden, Arps, commercial banks would not lend money for corporate takeovers; that was considered ungentlemanly. The “white shoe” law firms, as they were called, would not do that. It was Drexel Burnham that got together a group of investment bankers who wanted to launch enormous corporate raids. By the way, I addressed their annual meeting on a number of occasions; my friends at Drexel helped promote my career, and they were very open. They said, “The commercial banks don’t lend money for takeovers. That’s for us to do. We will gather the savings of individuals, put our own money in, and make these enormous corporate raids.” That was what leveraged buyouts were all about.

Junk bonds were created by the investment banking community, not by the commercial banking community. As the power of the investment banking community grew and was able to create bubbles, commercial banks found them more and more creditworthy to lend money to, even though they weren’t initially allowed to do this business themselves. That’s where Bill Clinton came in and abolished Glass-Steagall. The commercial banks, which had been fairly stayed before all this, were turned into investment banks with that exact mentality.

Instead of banks financing construction, real estate, and tangible capital investment, they suddenly became absorbed into this financialized economy centered on the stock market. They created money in the form of capital gains for industrial companies that were bought out with high-interest junk bonds, paying investors by carving up and breaking up those very companies. All of that was the legacy of this idea that finance should be independent from the economy, even giving it the power to carve up the economy, de-industrialize it, and destroy it, leaving it in shreds as we see today.

All of this was the result of the Ayn Rand philosophy that all government regulation is awful, and that free enterprise and free markets should be entirely unregulated. We’re seeing the results today. Most people that I know on Wall Street think a huge stock market bubble is about to crash, just as we’re seeing the results of energy and oil crises spread throughout the world, including the US economy itself.

Well, Radhika, you used the words “muddying the waters.” You could say that entire academic money and banking courses, along with monetary theory, exist to muddy the waters. The whole public discussion we’re seeing today muddies the waters because here’s the problem: we know that prices are going to go way up because of energy and oil. That’s on the news every night. Oil prices are going up, and while they talk about gasoline prices, what’s going up even more are prices for the fuel used for trucks—diesel fuel—as well as airline fuel, chemical fuel, and fertilizer. Everything connected with interrupting oil exports pushes up prices.

So people are talking about inflation, and here comes the “junk economics”, a term that you and I are credited on the internet for inventing. They think the way to keep down prices is to raise interest rates to create unemployment, operating on the myth that all price rises are the result of labor’s wages going up. They believe any inflation, no matter what causes it, can be cured by hurting labor. That basically is the theme song of central bank monetary policy and money management.

But the effect of oil prices and all of its derivatives going up is that there are going to be closeouts and shutdowns. You can look at Germany as the model for what’s going to happen in the United States and elsewhere. Volkswagen cut back its employment very sharply a few days ago. German industry has been cutting down because they can’t make a profit with today’s high sulfur and energy prices. That means labor is being laid off. It does not help at all to raise interest rates to create yet more unemployment when there’s already unemployment spreading in the American economy beginning in about two or three weeks, when the national oil reserves are essentially depleted as much as they can be. Then the prices go up and breakdowns will occur. This is an awful mess in the making

You can’t cure everything with monetary policy, but that’s what the monetarists believe. Milton Friedman said that inflation everywhere and at all times in history is the result of too much money. Well, what about Trump’s going to war or attempting to control the oil trade? That has nothing to do with printing money. If you try to bring down oil prices by cutting back credit, and that credit has primarily been pushing up the stock market bubble, then all of a sudden people are going to have to sell their stocks to pay off debt. It won’t pay to borrow money to bid up technology prices anymore, and there will be a crash. That is what looks to be in store for the United States and other countries.

By the way, the US dollar has gone up slightly since the Iran war, that’s because the crisis is hurting foreign nations so much that there’s a wind-down of foreign investment in US government bonds. Other countries are having to sell off their investments in the United States in order to survive these higher prices. The sell-off of bonds normally would increase interest rates. The Federal Reserve has been creating an enormous amount of credit on its balance sheet, and both Warsh and Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent have said we’ve got to cut back the Federal Reserve’s monetization of government debt.

Well, what does that mean? The Federal Reserve, according to Warsh and Bessent, should begin selling all of these bonds it has been holding back into the banking system. Imagine what that’s going to do to the financial and credit markets if everybody, foreign countries and the Fed alike, sell bonds at the same time. It’s going to pull all the liquidity out. It was that surplus liquidity and deregulation that puffed up this whole stock market bubble to begin with. That’s why I’m very pessimistic.

We’re talking about the word “bubble.” Let’s talk about what the dynamics of a bubble actually are. In my view, every bubble is a Ponzi scheme. In other words, you have to keep the bubble going by constantly borrowing money to pay the dividends and capital gains via new entrants into the stream. In this case, the new entrant is the Federal Reserve.

You’re absolutely right to bring attention to the fact that Greenspan denied the bubble. The entire University of Chicago free-market theory rests on the principle of the “efficient market hypothesis”, that the stock market and asset prices are the result of all investors coming together as the rational “brain” of the economy. If the whole market is a function of all investors making perfectly informed decisions, then by definition, there’s no such thing as a bubble.

That philosophy which denies the existence of a bubble, ignores the reality of where this money comes from. If stock prices increase, it requires that the investors who borrowed money to buy stocks and bonds on credit, paying banks interest rates that are now going up very sharply. They have to sell some of the stocks that have gained in price to pay the interest, making the bubble appear self-financing.

Unlike Charles Ponzi’s original scheme, where Ponzi couldn’t print the money for new investors to come in, the Federal Reserve can step in for the whole economy. They become the “sucker investors” that join the scheme, saying, “Well, it’s made a lot of money so far, it’s got to keep going up.” These are the people who say “the trend is your friend,” not realizing that this trend is entirely financed by an increasing ratio of debt to revenue.

As the debt-to-income ratio goes up, if interest rates rise, speculators realize they can’t pay a high interest rate to buy stocks that are now just going sideways. They decide it’s time to sell out, pay off the bank debt, take their gains, and leave the pension funds, mutual funds, and private small-fry investors to bear the costs. That basically is the strategy for what’s going on now. We’re seeing the insiders, the billionaires, and the top 10% make all of this gain in stock market wealth, while the economy at large has been going flat since the Obama bank bailout.

The rest of the economy is going to be sacrificed, and you’re going to have even more economic polarization, this time, not by the stock market going up more, but by the rest of the economy really going down. Not only does 40% of the American population have no savings, but they are actually going to be forced deeper and deeper into debt, leaving less income to buy goods and services. The whole economy falls into a shrinking dynamic. That’s what a Ponzi-style bubble does.

You used the words “shocked disbelief.” I wish we could insert the film clip from Casablanca: “I’m shocked, shocked to hear that there is gambling going on here!”

You said what we need is tangible capital investment. The fact is that tangible investment is not considered to be a good gamble these days because you can’t just increase the short-term cost of investment by turning on the monetary spigot, which is what the Federal Reserve does to financialize the economy. Capital investment requires making a productive profit on hiring labor to produce actual goods and services that people buy. That can’t be easily done today in the economy that the United States has created.

That’s why companies in America and Europe have outsourced their industry to China. China is following an industrial policy that treats investment not as a mere speculative gamble, but as a planned support for industrial capital investment—just like the United States, Britain, and Germany did during their own industrialization in the 19th century.

What China’s doing is the exact historical policy of industrial capitalism. It wasn’t supposed to be a gamble to make industrial capital investment; it was national policy. That included a mixed economy with a government providing basic needs at a low enough price so that you could keep the cost of living stable, employing labor to produce industrial goods to export and become more competitive.

But the United States, by dismantling government, has dismantled the government’s ability to reduce the cost of living. Instead of providing public services, it privatizes them at rising prices; instead of public health, it provides privatized Obamacare at 20% of the GDP; and it maintains a banking system whose main business is inflating real estate prices, which increases the costs American labor has to pay for housing. All of these policies have made domestic industrial investment a bad gamble.

Traders on Wall Street are only asking, “How much can we make today, this week, or this month?” That’s their timeframe, not the long term. America lives in the financial short term, while Asia, especially China, has adopted the long-term philosophy of industrial investment. We’re really seeing the world break up into two entirely different approaches to the economy. That’s the big setting for what we’ve been talking about.