######## 11 trumps-economic-waterloo (Aug) — Hudson's turns only

It’s good to be back, and especially on a day like today when everything’s exploding.

Well, apparently he’s been losing his temper for the last six months or so, not only against the military, but against the economic advisors and the political advisors. And what he’s angry at is the military’s been explaining to him what your military commentators on your site have been saying: that from the very beginning, there was no way in which the United States could defeat Iran for a number of reasons. For one thing, Iran is focused on taking out the radar systems of all of the surrounding U.S. military bases. And that’s prevented the United States from knowing exactly where the missiles are coming from and how to put in place defense systems. Trump said, “We only had seven minutes to respond in the case of the attack on Jordan.” Well, they used to be able to tell a lot longer than that.

But the most important thing is the whole U.S. strategy is Trump’s psychodrama that if—and it’s a psychodrama of the United States, Ukraine also—that if we can just hurt civilians enough—if in violation of the laws of war saying you hit military targets, not civilians—if we hit civilians, they will be—as in the case of Russia—they’ll be so unhappy and hurt that they’ll say, “Can’t we change the regime and get a regime that the United States will accept, that is favorable to the U.S., so it’ll stop bombing us and killing our women and children and civilians?”

Well, the Iranians have shown since 1979 that they can stand up [to] this. And the army said: this is not going to hurt Iran. The only way of defeating Iran is to hit military targets. When you hit the population, the effect is just going to drive them together and [they’ll be] saying, “We don’t want any part of this. The U.S. is the enemy. And no matter what, there’s no way we’re going to surrender to the U.S. army and military that’s hurting our civilians so much.”

So hurting civilians doesn’t help. And how do you hit the military targets that Iran has spent three decades—more than that—in putting all over the enormous country that it has in all sorts of places—with decoys all around of false missile launchers? There’s no way that the U.S. military can take them out. Plus, the military’s running out of bombs and missiles, and if it expends what it has left on Iran, it won’t be able to defend Israel or Ukraine or Western Europe from the simultaneous war on two fronts that it’s fighting between both Iran and Russia.

So Trump is furious at that. And he’s furious at the fact that from the very beginning, he started a war without spelling out, well, what are the objectives? Well, the first thing that von Clausewitz said: war is a continuation of economic policy. What is the economic policy? There’s only one policy that Trump has been spelling out since the first administration. Beginning in 2018, he said, our aim for the Middle East—West Asia—is to make the Arab monarchies pay for the war, especially Saudi Arabia. We want to recover all of the expenses we’re paying there from Saudi Arabia and the Emirates, just as we want to help Ukraine and Europe recover all the expenses of our war against Russia in the Ukrainian battlefield.

So that’s his philosophy. And this war that he’s fighting is developing and expanding into a war against the Arab OPEC members just as much as against Iran. And that’s what they see. They’re stuck. What can they do? Because all of their savings—of Saudi Arabia and the Emirates—are invested in the United States financial system. So, the United States at any time can simply say, “Well, we’re recovering the costs of our war by sequestering your savings, just like we did against Iran.” That’s their nightmare of what’s happening. They’re paralyzed. What can they do?

Well, that’s why Iran is so insistent in saying: no matter what happens, we must control all of the tanker traffic through the Strait of Hormuz now, and we’ll continue after the war to do it because this war is going to be a military threat as long as the United States has a presence in the region—not only a military presence, but a financial symbiosis with the Emirates, with Saudi Arabia, with these governments. And it’s that symbiosis that we have to end. And that’s why Iran has been bombing the Amazon data centers and other Google and Microsoft and Meta data centers. It wants to end the whole linkages between the region’s symbiotic relationship with investors in the United States and the part-ownership and the whole plans for the United States to expand its attempt to create an information technology and automatic intelligence monopoly by saying, “Well, we can’t build electric plants and provide energy here in the United States because we don’t have the time to build new utilities and we don’t have the water to cool the plants. We have to go where the energy is.” And the energy is in West Asia. The energy is in the Emirates and Saudi Arabia.

Well, the problem is they don’t have water either. This is the whole dilemma for these monarchies, but also for Iran: how do we stop this symbiosis and get the whole influence of the United States out of the region? Because as long as the Arab countries have their hopes for making money and getting rich in America’s financial markets, their hearts are going to be with U.S. foreign policy—militarily and politically—and we’re screwed.

They recognized this already a few months ago. Trump said he was going to begin his attack on Iran. And Saudi Arabia said, “We can’t let you use our territory or bases as a takeoff point to attack Iran because Iran will attack us. So we’re blocking our bases.” That made Trump suspend his initial plans for the war earlier this year and have a workaround to avoid Saudi Arabia. So they already stopped him once and they got Kuwait to agree with them to both jointly saying: you can’t use your bases in either of our countries or fly over them.

So Mohammed bin Salman (MBS) realizes that they’re stuck. On the other hand, he realizes that America holds all of Saudi Arabia’s savings hostage more or less, and there’s that traditional fight of Sunni Wahhabi Islam against the Shia religion of Iran. And there’s that element too. And Saudi Arabia continues, when all is said and done, to throw in its lot with the United States.

Well, and not only against Iran, but a long time ago, they fought against Yemen to conquer Yemen. And that’s led the Yemenis—the Houthis, their group of the Yemenis—to fight back. And they’re able to stop the 5% of world oil that’s exported by Saudi Arabia through the Red Sea, in addition to the 20% that goes through the Strait of Hormuz. And Saudi Arabia has already been trying not only the last year, but for many years, to defeat the Yemenis and prevent their ability to attack Saudi Arabia—unsuccessfully. And it has to be a losing fight.

So, what’s going to happen? Well, at some point, the war is going to come to an end. And the aftermath of all wars usually is political. I think we’ve discussed before in your show how World War I ended with removing the monarchies of Europe, not only in the defeated countries, but also in the victorious countries. Monarchies were replaced by parliamentary oligarchies calling themselves democracies, but they were replaced.

Well, let’s imagine what kind of political backwash there’s going to be when this oil war by the U.S. against West Asia and Russia ends. I think you’re going to have a lot of the sheikhdoms and monarchies be replaced—by what? Probably Iran will emerge victorious. You’re seeing the whole negotiation and fighting between Iran and Oman right now over, “How are we going to control shipping through the Persian Gulf, through the Strait of Hormuz?”

Well, Iran is not going to share it 50-50. It’s going to say: this whole war has injured us. We only have one way of stopping the war. The war is not against you. It’s against us. We are going to control the strait. We are going to get the money. We’ll share some portion of it with you, that’s up to negotiation, but not very much.

The argument is who gets what right now. And I’m not sure how Oman can solve. And the problem is that Iran can always say: well, you used to be part of Iran, once upon a time. That situation may be restored at some future date. What do you think?

I think there’s a perception, both in Iran and the United States, that everything goes to an extreme. And the extreme here is there can only be one winner, either Iran or the United States. And the military is telling Trump: Iran has all the cards. There’s no way that we can win. And if we just say, “All right, if we can’t win, let’s just paralyze everything. Let’s just close everything down and stall.”

Well, the longer they stall, the deeper they make the inevitable world depression and breakdown that’s going to occur no later than this autumn because the oil isn’t being shipped. The gas isn’t being shipped. And the result is that you can only release so much oil from the national [Strategic] Petroleum Reserve before the reserve runs out. Or if Trump says, “We’ve got to keep oil prices down and gasoline,” he means gasoline prices for the vacationers that are driving in August and September before the November elections. We’ve got to keep gas prices down so even if we deplete so much oil from the salt caves in which the United States has stored its petroleum reserves, if we sell so much oil—and a lot of it’s being exported to Europe to keep down the prices—so if the oil goes below say, 70 billion—the limit of what the caves can hold—the caves will collapse. And Trump will say, “That’s okay if they collapse. Let’s hope they don’t collapse until after the first week in November, the first Tuesday when there are the elections taking place. By then, I’ll be in.”

So for him, everything is timed for the November election. And he’ll let the economy of the United States be pushed into absolute crisis after election day—the midterm election day—in order to try to maintain the hold of the Republican Party, and specifically his MAGA group within it, against the Democrats who are pledged to start impeachment proceedings against him and bring in an entirely different regime change.

So the regime change that Trump wanted to bring about turns out to be in the United States, not Iran. That’s the irony of all this. Just like you will conquer a great country—the country Trump is conquering is the United States, not Iran.

Well, I think it had the right strategy.

Well, Iran has a higher tolerance for economic punishment than the United States because it’s been living with this for a long time and has shown its resilience. The United States is not a resilient economy because it’s so debt-leveraged; it’s living on the brink of insolvency for businesses, for labor, consumers, for local governments. And militarily, Iran’s policy is realizing that the best defense is offense. And in the United States, the reports are: look, Iran did just what you described—a surprise attack on Jordan. Well, what is surprising about this? The U.S. has continued to attack Iran with acts of war by blocking its oil exports outside of the Strait of Hormuz. That’s an act of war. America’s been at economic war with Iran all this time, preventing its exports. An economic war is just as serious as a military war.

So Iran realizes that, and it’s also looked at the dynamics between Russia and the United States in their fight in Ukraine. And Russia has always so far been, we will do a proportionate attack. You can mount a surprise attack on us again and again and again, and we will react proportionally.

Well, Iran has gone beyond that. It said: we’re not going to just do proportionally. Proportionally won’t stop “you get to decide what you can attack with us and what our proportional attack will be.” If you attack us, we’re going to do what normally is done in war. We will attack you as strongly as we can. And it’s because we are the superior military power at this point since your missiles are depleted, your radar is destroyed, your early warning systems don’t work, your missile systems are not able to defend the U.S. bases and areas against our drones and missiles. You don’t have the defense. All of the military advantages are on our side, as I think your own generals have been telling you, Mr. Trump.

So, you can walk into a guaranteed losing war. But you know, you came to office saying you want to be a new Napoleon for our era. Well, remember what happened to Napoleon when he attacked Russia and again when he attacked Britain and lost at Waterloo. This is going to be your fate. Yes, you’re going to end up like Napoleon. I’m not sure you’ll be in exile. If it won’t be in Elba, maybe it’ll be in Israel, as all of your corrupt behavior has led to threats of imprisonment. But you’re going to end up not in the way of Napoleon that you’d imagined when you picked him as your role model.

The gain for whom?

They don’t want to be hit. They know that if the king of Jordan, and his bureaucracy, throws what he controls into the U.S. camp, that the whole majority of Jordanian citizens are not Jordanians—I mean, the Jordanian population are not Jordanians. A lot of them are Palestinians, a lot are Indian, or a lot are Shiites. It means that if Jordan continues to side with the United States and make itself a target for Iranian retaliation, there’s not going to be a monarchy anymore. The monarchy will become either part of Iran or as an Iranian client state in one way or another, probably opening it up to votes for the population at large, which, of course, will have the sympathies not exactly with the monarchy any more than would be the case in the Emirates or Saudi Arabia, which is the similar minority.

Jordan and the Emirates and the kinglets of West Asia were all a product of World War I and World War II, when the Ottoman Empire was carved up, and Britain and France, the two great European colonial powers, redrew the political boundaries of this region and installed client monarchies, client oligarchies, client aristocracies—all of that. We’re finally seeing the undoing of the mess that the European colonial powers created after World War I, and then when the British and French empires were absorbed into the American financial empire after World War II, the United States. All of this is, I think, destined to be swept away in the backwash of what’s going to happen as the ultimate settlement of the war that’s now really just gaining momentum on a global level.

It’ll be an economic crisis that occurs at some point where there is a break in the chain of payments. There’s no way of knowing exactly when the crisis is going to occur. What America’s been experiencing since 2009—when Obama came into office and bailed out the banks from the real estate junk mortgage crisis—the United States has been in a slow crash. And it’s kept its economy going by debt-leveraged asset price inflation, fueled by the Federal Reserve pouring money, financing the budget deficits caused by Trump’s tax cuts, into the financial sector. The Federal Reserve has financed all of the budget deficit, including the prospective trillion-and-a-half-dollar military spending budget that Trump has proposed.

All of this has been created by the Federal Reserve printing the money to buy Treasury securities from the financial sector, pumping money into the banks and the financial sector to create money. And what do banks lend money for? Not for industrial development, not to increase the economy’s productivity and profits, but they lend it against real estate, stocks, and bonds to bid up the prices, hoping that the prices from all of this debt-leveraged asset price inflation—the zero interest-rate policy for many years—are going to provide the real estate and stock companies and companies that owe bonds with the money to pay the banks the interest and carrying charges on their foreign debt.

Well, all of that’s on a knife edge right now. And the interruption of economic activity that’s caused by the oil shortage, especially for diesel fuels, for American transportation, and the shortage of fertilizer for American agriculture and farms—bankruptcies are going way up—and for the electricity companies and for all of these oil-dependent industries, especially the airlines that have been cutting back many of their routes because of the rising price in the kerosene-type of airline fuel.

All of these special fuels besides gasoline are really where the squeeze is going to lead to closedowns. Truckers cannot afford to operate on the current rate. You’re already having private sector truckers that are operating on a sort of piecemeal basis. They won’t be able to make any earnings. Farmers are not able to continue planting at their planned rates and make a profit on producing wheat, corn, soybeans at the current prices when they have to pay such high prices for their own diesel fuel, for harvesting equipment, for fertilizer, for all of the inputs that are being interrupted by the war in the Persian Gulf.

That is exactly what the Treasury Secretary, Scott Bessent, has said. He had a wonderful interview with, I think, CNBC, where he explained that Venezuela is the model for exactly what he wants to do in Russia. He said, “It’s all about keeping the dollar as the center of American foreign policy.”

He [Bessent] said: why did we go to war in Venezuela? Because they weren’t using the dollar. They were pricing their oil in currencies other than the dollar. Not only that, but they were spending these oil proceeds not in buying U.S. products, but in buying products from countries other than the United States. So, when we went into Venezuela, we did two things. We confiscated their oil. We had all of their oil proceeds invested and sent into a U.S. Treasury bank account under my direction as Secretary of the Treasury. And we’ve made sure that this bank account is spent in the United States on U.S. products. Well, we can do the same thing for Iran.

And Trump immediately came out after Bessent’s interview and said: yes, Bessent is right. If we can conquer Iran, we’re going to take over Iran’s oil. And we have a plan. If we conquer Iran’s oil, we’re going to set up a Treasury account. And we’re going to let Iran export the oil—but all of the oil proceeds are going to be priced in dollars. And the dollars are going to be in a Treasury account managed by the United States. And we’re going to spend all of the money in this Treasury account either on U.S. exports or investment in the United States, and to pay the United States for the seemingly infinite costs of our military expenditures that were required to defeat Iran.

And he [Trump] said, that’s why we can’t agree to the Memorandum of Understanding from June 17th that I signed in the way that Iran understood it. Iran was supposed to get some token payment—either with a $12 billion, was it $6 billion, was it $3 billion—some payment of the $100 billion that the United States has directed its allies to confiscate, including South Korean confiscation of allies that it transferred all the money it seized from the Iranian accounts into the Emirates and all this money is in the Emirates.

Well, Trump said, first of all, the Emirates want to keep this money for themselves as their reparations for Iran defending itself by attacking the bases and the Emirates that attacked it. But also, the fact is that any money that is held in the Emirates account that they agree to repay Iran, whether it’s $3 billion or $6 billion or $12 billion, all that’s going to be an account that I, Donald Trump, will control. And all this money is going to be spent on American supplies—medical supplies, food imports. It’s all going to be spent in the United States, nowhere else.

And Bessent, in his interview, said: and we can do the same with Russia. We will convince Russia that, yes, we can resolve the war in Ukraine that NATO is waging against you. We can stop the attacks, but you’ll have to agree that if your exports of oil and natural gas increase, you’ll have to agree to spend the proceeds in the United States. And that is the basis of U.S. strategy.

And that’s the real corner into which the United States economy has painted itself. It’s no longer able to create its own industrial prosperity and investment and living standards at home. It’s deindustrialized. It’s privatized its infrastructure. It’s financialized the economy, making money by interest and economic rent, not by profits on actual tangible capital formation and factories and their machinery and means of production.

So, it’s painted the only way that the United States can support its living standards and the debt service that it has to pay is to exploit other countries. And Bessent and Trump, again, have spelled out exactly what this strategy is. They’re very open in it. They say: we have to achieve a world monopoly in the form of choke points. Oil is the number one choke point we have. If we can control oil, we can make sure that as much oil as is exported, the United States is going to get much of the economic surplus.

And he [Trump], in one of the speeches he gave a few weeks ago, saying, take Saudi Arabia and the Arab Emirates. If we control the Strait of Hormuz, if we can replace Iran as controlling this, we will charge all oil traffic 20% of the total value of the oil that is being exported. Imagine 20% of all the OPEC oil that’s being exported will go to the United States as compensation—reparations for the United States protecting it, is what Trump said. We were the guardian angel.

Well, I think that Saudi Arabia and the Emirates no longer think of America as their guardian angel. But the United States, that’s really what this fight over Hormuz is about—who is going to control it? And Iran has said very explicitly, it responded: if we don’t control it, then you’re going to control it. And we will only charge the modest amount that we have been charging for ships going through the Strait of Hormuz, which is only one-seventh as large as what you’re charging.

But then, after Trump came out and said, “We’re going to charge 20%,” the Iranians said: well, at least you’ve said one thing that we agree with, Mr. Trump. You’ve agreed that international law does not prevent charging a transit fee for traffic through international waters. You had claimed that we can’t collect the fee because the Strait of Hormuz is an international water. And countries that have signed the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea say that, well, these countries that signed UNCLOS were grandfathered in.

So Suez can charge a fee, the Panama Canal can charge a fee, the Turkish can charge a fee for the Dardanelles—which, by the way, they raised 15% last year in their annual increase in the fee through their international waters. But Iran never signed this UNCLOS agreement, nor did the United States. Well, but Iran said: thank you for at least acknowledging the right for countries to be able to charge the fee that these other major countries do. And we’re going to charge it, and it’ll certainly be more affordable for the other West Asian countries—for Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, Bahrain. It’ll be more affordable for them to have us charge our relatively modest fees. And that’s going to be the only way we’re going to get reparations or even recover the money that these countries have seized from our accounts. Better to pay us than to pay the much steeper demands that Trump has said he’s going to charge you if the United States conquers us and takes over the Strait of Hormuz.

So the war of the United States against Iran is an oil war. And for Trump, the objective of the oil war is to control the Strait of Hormuz, and presumably the Red Sea also, in order to use it to extract money to pay the United States to help support its economy for the revenue and the affluence, the flow of foreign money that is no longer being produced by the United States economy domestically itself.

Well, the way you phrased the question, Nima, is, what would a sovereign country do in this situation? Well, there’s no question that if Saudi Arabia and the Emirates had sovereign power over what to do with their own export earnings and with all of the investments that they’ve built up since 1975—ever since the petrodollar system went in—if they had their own choice, of course they’d say: how do we make money? We make money where the economic growth is. We may make money on debt-leveraged stock appreciation in the United States, but ultimately the only way you can really make money on a sustained basis is by economic growth. And the economic growth is not occurring in the West, not occurring in the United States, and has certainly been stifled in NATO Europe. It’s occurring in China, potentially Russia, if the war with the United States is over with it, and by Africa as it throws off its former colonial rulers in France and other countries. So, of course, we’re going to do just what China’s doing. We’re going to invest all of our sovereign wealth funds and our personal funds in the Asian market.

Well, the problem is they don’t have sovereign power. Because what do you think the United States would do if Saudi Arabia began to say: well, you know, we’ll pull out a little bit, maybe only $2 trillion from the American market. And China has offered some wonderful investments. We will supply China with oil and we have an investment partnership with China, much along the same lines that we have investment partnerships drawn up with your automatic intelligence companies. But that’s really where the growth is because the artificial intelligence systems of China, the internet, all of the computer industry—this is Chinese technology because they’ve used their profits from their economy and from their computer systems in research and development in contrast to the U.S. companies, which many of whom are now collapsing. They’ve [U.S. companies] used their profits for stock buybacks and to pay higher dividends to their stockholders to push up their stock prices.

Well, China doesn’t have a financial stockholding class or an independent financial class. That’s what makes industrial capitalism, or the industrial socialism of China and Asia, so much more productive than the finance capitalism of the United States that makes money financially at the expense of the industrial sector—which is why the United States and Europe are deindustrializing, not industrializing.

So, obviously, the materialist approach to history [says], “Well, countries are going to put their money where the economic incentives are highest.” But they’re not allowed to. That’s what the United States has created: a system of control preventing Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, Bahrain, Qatar from using their oil export proceeds for any economy outside of the United States. That’s what Bessent and Trump have been explaining very explicitly.

There is no shame in this, no attempt to conceal it. They’ve come right out and said that’s the basis of American foreign policy. And I have an article that I’ll be publishing, I think, next week through Democracy Collaborative and on my website explaining, giving all of the quotations that we’ve been talking about and all of my analysis of this.

This is the whole plan on which American international strategy and foreign policy are based on. Other countries must pay us tribute of one form or another. They have to transfer their economic surpluses to the United States—their trade surpluses, their financial surpluses—to benefit our economy, not themselves, and certainly not other economies, such as China’s economy or other countries whose sovereignty we oppose and against which we impose trade and financial sanctions, as we’ve been doing.

So, will Saudi Arabia and other American allies in the Persian Gulf obey the U.S. sanctions saying, well, you know, we’ve imposed sanctions on, and we will confiscate any money that you try to put in China or Singapore or other countries not in the United State. We’ll confiscate because we’ve said you can’t trade with them. What are you going to do about it?

Well, in the past, the United States had its military bases there, and all it has now are its American embassy there. So the American Embassy will say: well, if Saudi Arabia wants to invest its money in China, maybe it needs a regime change. Same thing for other countries.

So these countries will be under attack if they try to exert their own national sovereignty. Well, of course, the whole principle on which the United Nations was based in 1945 was the principle of guaranteeing national sovereignty to every nation. The United States, as we’ve discussed before, said: our national sovereignty is aimed at promoting our own prosperity, and our prosperity is threatened by the national sovereignty of other countries not recycling all of their export and investment income to our economy, but spending it in other economies.

That’s what is going to lead to this oil war ending in a whole reconstruction, a whole new international economic order that’s going to enable all countries, including the Arab OPEC countries, to exert their national sovereignty of deciding what to do. But it’s going to be a bloody fight. In that sense, you can look at the fight against Iran and against Russia, the two oil producers that the United States has not grabbed as it did in Venezuela. This whole fight is really just beginning to flower into an economic dimension of World War III that’s going to be fought throughout the rest of this year, certainly all of next year, deciding: can other countries break free of the international trade and financial system that’s become a tributary system for the United States economy? Can we really have a set of international relations that provides not free trade, but the open trade, open investment for all countries?

That’s going to be what the great political fight is about. And the United States says, well, there’s no alternative to the dollar-oriented order. De-dollarization won’t work. And the rest of the world, the global majority—the Global South, Iran, Russia—are saying, well, there is an alternative. We do have to set about deciding it. And it looks like Iran, Russia, and China are going to be the three countries that are designing these alternatives and inviting the BRICS countries and the rest of the world to join in this system that they are putting in place.

Well, thanks for letting us both have such a wide-ranging discussion.

Transcription and Diarization: https://scripthub.dev/

######## 12 the-last-colonial-wars (Jun) — Hudson's turns only

Good to be here.

There’s no deal that’s imminent at all, and there cannot be, because none of the proposed peace plans that are announced by Trump can be realized in practice. Already, Iran has said, rightly so, that for starters, it needs a release of the funds that the United States has grabbed, and that should include the grabbing of the stable coin that Iran sought to be paid in. The U.S. can’t possibly agree to any such payment because the Congress says that it has congressional approval and that no funds can be released without congressional approval.

So this seems unlikely given South Carolina’s Lindsey Graham firm opposition saying that under no terms will we give Iran the money that it can terrorize Israel and terrorize America by fighting back against the bombing and that any retaliation against American terrorism or Israeli terrorism is accused as being Iranian terrorism, just like when Russia responds to Ukrainian attacks on similar schools with boys and girls in it. That’s considered terrorism for fighting back. And the Congress said, this is our right. This is what we’re going to do.

And quite apart from the fact that Congress will not approve anything that Trump has talked about, neither will Israel. Israel says, we’re going to, we’re not binding to this. We’re going to continue to attack. And even if we sign an agreement, we’re going to ignore agreement because there’s no rule of law anymore. This is totally the law of the jungle that’s occurring now.

And I think you have to realize that, that the whole thought that there can be an agreement ignores the fact that the Iranian conflict, like that of Russia, can only be settled on the battlefield. That’s how it’s going to be, probably after this Sunday or Monday when the two or three week war begins.

Trump, you could look at Trump’s demand. His demand that Iran turn over its uranium as if it wants to atom bomb Israel is a red herring. This is bizarre. As we’ve discussed before, the U.S. intelligence agencies agree Iran has made no effect, no attempt to create an atom bomb. Israel has 200 atom bombs.

So I would be surprised that if I were Iran, I would say, well, you know, we have a red line too. Israel must join the group of nations acknowledging for atomic bombs. And yes, of course, we’re willing to give up our any enriched uranium we have on the condition that Israel gives up its 200 atom bombs that it has. We want parity, we want symmetry. That’s the basis of any agreement.

And without a symmetry, with Israel having 200 bombs and we having none, this is bizarre. Well, Trump has turned to Hegseth at the meeting in Washington yesterday. And Hegseth says, well, it’s true that Iran doesn’t have an atom bomb, but it may someday have an ambition for an atom bomb. And we have to assume that Iran is going to fulfill this ambition to try to get it because that’s what we would do if we were Iran.

The fact is that we plan to attack Iran. And of course, Iran is going to want a counterattack. And the way to counterattack is an atom bomb.

So, because we are going to step up the war and start Trump’s threatened war with Iran next week, that means that, of course, Iran is going to treat us like the great Satan and want to do that. This is all a red herring.

When you start a discussion saying this isn’t about America’s desire to control oil in the Middle East, we want peace. Peace means we want American Israel to take over the Near East to control its oil export so that we can do exactly what Trump announced to do in the first two weeks of his administration with his national security oil policy, saying America’s foreign policy is based on the control of oil and the ability to cut off all other countries from access to oil unless they agree to the U.S. conditions of avoiding sanctions on their oil trade by sanctioning Russia, China, and Iran, and any other party designated by the United States.

So, the United States is taking such a hardline position based on a fantasy, an enabling fantasy, that there is no way that any possible agreement can be done. The U.S. and Israel are projecting their own fears on Iran based on the fact that this is their policy. They think Iran is just as vicious and racist and violent and terrorist as the United States and Israel are. But Iran, just like Russia, have been very carefully avoiding attacks on civilians such as that.

So the question is that I think if Iran is to give up any prospects for developing an atom bomb, well, then it’s a fantasy. Where would Israel put its 200 atom bombs and its enriched uranium? And what country could be trusted? If it put it in Mexico, which is probably neutral, the United States could mount troops in Mexico and simply grab it and return it to Israel.

So it’s not possible in principle to have any of the agreements enforced in any meaningful way. And obviously, Iran knows that just as almost everybody except the stock market, the bond market, and the U.S. and Europe, that continues to think, well, everything’s marginal, everything’s going to be all right.

I want to say something about the U.S., what you just mentioned, the tolls, that Iran says, of course, we’re going to create tolls on the Strait of Hormuz. Not only did that used to be part of Iran, but collecting these tolls is the only way to get reparations for the attacks that America, Israel, and the Emirates and other Arab countries have caused by letting American aircraft and bombers take use of their air bases. Just yesterday, Iran retaliated against Kuwait, where apparently American bombers took off to try to send missiles to Iran, which I gather that Iran was able to reject.

Well, the United States says basically, on the one hand, Iran, it’s against international law to impose tolls in international waters. Well, the international law of the sea is dead. The United States, as Richard and I have discussed before, have been bombing fishermen off the coast of Venezuela and Colombia, saying, Well, these fishermen could be drug dealers. That’s against the law of the sea. You have to board them and see if there’s any drug. You have to give them warning. Same thing in the Strait of Hormuz. The United States has been bombing fishermen in the Strait of Hormuz, saying, Well, maybe these fishermen aren’t fishermen. Maybe perhaps they’re laying mines. That’s exactly what Donald Trump accused them of doing. There’s no indication that they’re laying mines, and apparently they had fish on the boats. But the United States is just sort of showing power by saying, We have total control of the sea. There is no international law for us.

Well, then, how can the United States make the pretense that there’s an international law that Iran can’t use what it certainly has the right to do and control the Strait of Hormuz and the shipping through it and to impose fees on it? Because that is a situation that the United States has created. The United States has weaponized the Strait of Hormuz by weaponizing its proxy states, such as the Emirates, that have pledged religious war against Iran and other Arab countries.

Of course, Iran needs to protect itself from the fact that American military bases are throughout these countries and Iran has every right to, given America’s breaking of the laws of war, the laws of sea, international law of national sovereignty, Iran is probably the only country in the world right now that is trying to live according to international law in an otherwise lawless international environment. I’d better stop elaborating this so that Richard can have a chance to talk.

Well, the question is: where do we go from here? How does the world say no? That’s how Richard began his whole discussion. How is the whole epoch of Western colonialism to be ended?

Well, what Richard calls the European neo-colonial expansion is actually they’re trying to refight World War II, but this time on the side of Germany and Japan against Russia and China. It’s a refight of World War II. And just like Russia was the main fighter and sacrificer and ultimate winner, destroying the German army, it looks like it’s in the same relative power over Western Europe that it has today. And this time, China is no longer as weak as it was in the 1920s and 30s when Japan began its whole military buildup and the rape of Nanking and all of that. So the West’s fight to refight World War II is the last gas of what indeed is the attempt of Western colonialism, is going to fail.

But again, the question is: how is the world going to organize to replace financial and trade as well as military colonialism? There’s a breakdown of law basically as a result of the U.S. attempt to try to maintain its control. What kind of law can be enforced again? Not, well, the law is sufficient. It’s all the principles of the United Nations Charter. But how can you create a new United Nations that has a power of enforcement and that is immune from the U.S. and European control veto power over the Security Council? How can you enforce the isolation of countries that violate international law, the United States and Western Europe, Germany, Britain, and France, and they’re fighting against Russia and Ukraine.

There has to be a discussion of how to create such an organization since the United Nations has ceased to function and there’s a paralysis. And I think the problem is, and I know Richard will agree with me on this, countries are no longer following their economic interests. That’s what we’ve been discussing on this show for the last year. Their governments have been hijacked, captured by advocates of the law of the jungle, the law of force. And Trump, as I’ve said, accuses Iran as being a terrorist, but it’s the American and its allies that are the terrorists. Same thing about Ukraine accusing Russia of being terrorists. We’re in a terrorist situation already. This is the kind of prelude to the World War III, which is actually the refight of World War II, the way it’s working out geopolitically.

Well, the first issue of this that we’ve been focusing on now for three months is U.S. foreign policy for a century is aimed at controlling the world’s oil supply, along with British and Dutch support, so as to force countries to follow U.S. policies or being cut off from oil. Well, the result of the American attack on Iran and Iran’s response to the attack is indeed going to cut all of these countries off from oil without their having the option of saying, we surrender, we’re going to follow the U.S. sanctions. They’re cut off anyway because the U.S. is following the national security strategy saying that without oil, we cannot control the world. Without controlling the monopoly in information technology and the internet and computer technology and computer chips, we cannot control the world.

How will the world resist being controlled? The only way it can do is to become self-sufficient on its own by isolating itself from the United States and Western Europe. You recently have, I think in the last few days, Iceland has seen Trump’s attack statement again that he wants to take control of Greenland. Iceland has talked about: well, maybe we should cease to be an independent country and join the European Union to prevent America from taking us over in order to control the access by sea to the Arctic Ocean to trade for Russian oil and Russian gas.

Well, I’m not sure that joining the EU is going to be any more of a salvation than go going it alone because the EU is leadership has been so hijacked. So basically, if the United States I think if the United States continues to isolate Iran’s economy, then Iran can simply say we’re not going to go down alone. We’re going to bring about the exact fate that all of you feared, that there won’t be OPEC oil, that there is going to be a World Depression. It is going to be worse than the Depression of the 1930s because you can’t get out of it simply by canceling the debts. You simply can’t get out of it by creating money. You can’t get out of it by investing in your own economy because there’s a shortage of oil and high oil prices that make your industries uncompetitive with countries that have an oil.

And the way that other countries are going to get oil, obviously, is from the country that has it, Russia and Iran and Iran’s agreement of peace with the Arab OPEC countries so that the oil and the gas and the fertilizer and the sulfur can all be restored to a new takeoff sometime in the next decade after enormous destruction takes place. And the world is sitting by as if in cognitive dissonance that this could actually happen.

I think that other countries, their leaders and their voters, and certainly the investors on their stock exchanges, Asian stock exchanges, as much as Europe and Europe and American stock exchanges, can’t believe that countries are not going to act in their own self-interest to prevent this, but that’s not what is happening.

So the whole idea of how do we project the future as if countries will act in their self-interest is almost as fanciful now as saying how do we project the future as if countries will all obey international law according to the principles of the law of the sea, the law of war, the law of national sovereignty that are embodied in the United Nations Charter. The United Nations Charter after World War II, it was very specific, saying that in case there was a replay, a resurgence of Nazism, other countries had the right to prevent it and to act by their own on their own to prevent it. All of that was already spilled out in 1945, and it’s all been erased.

And it cannot be created just by saying, well, let’s ask the United Nations to solve it. There has to be a new institutional structure, and it has to be on the part of the global majority. I think the future is what we should begin talking about and how it can possibly take place and what needs to be the legal, military, and financial foundations of this.

I don’t think the solution can come from anything that the U.S. or Europe can do or even be a part of. Again, what I just mentioned, the UN Charter said that if Nazism were to re-emerge or if Japan or Germany were to resume militarization, which is what they’re now doing, then the victors of World War II are authorized to take all the necessary steps to stop it.

Well, I think that any treaty signed by Iran is going to have to specify the consequences of Israel or the United States attacking one of its neighbors or Iran again. It has to stop ethnic and racist genocide, just as Russia has to stop Ukrainian and German and English racist genocide in Ukraine against the Slavs, calling them cockroaches, the same terminology that Israel uses for the Palestinians. The idea that people not of your ethnicity or nationality are not human beings exempts you from all international law and all the civilized behavior that’s been developed as international law for the last five centuries. That’s what Nazism was, and it’s what it still is today in Germany, France, Britain, Israel, and Japan, countries that are all following this position.

So Iran and Russia and Japan will need their own equivalent of NATO’s Article 5 to protect other countries from Iran, Russia, and China.

No, Japan is to protect people from Japan. It’s rearming. It wants American atomic missiles. I can understand China saying the minute Japan gets an atomic missile in a U.S. base or Japanese bank, there will be no more Tokyo. There will be no more Osaka. We are solving the Japanese problem forever.

And I think that we’re in given the spread of atomic war, the United States says that every country in the world needs its own atom bomb to protect itself from us, unless you can prevent us from using our atom bombs. That’s really what it’s come down to. And that’s what nobody’s willing to acknowledge in the recent breakdown of the agreement. So that’s the standoff.

But I think the U.S. itself is going to almost self-terminate its attacks now, because unlike the Minsk agreements that were made when Europe and the United States wanted to take the time to rearm Ukraine, the U.S. troops, the U.S. is already as rearmed as it’s going to be. It already has its navy there. It already has its air bases there.

But they can’t be used without being defeated militarily by Iran that is now protected by China and Russia. That’s the standoff. Trump and Israel believe if that’s the standoff, then just let’s do it right now because it’s going to be even worse next year. So that’s what makes the war and the disaster that’ll come to it inevitable in the next few weeks.

I want to say one sentence on the problem of ending colonialism. The major supporters of colonialism are the colonies themselves. Their client oligarchies want to maintain colonialism because colonialism has ruled through their client oligarchies. That’s many of the BRICS countries. This is what is stopping the former colonies from fighting back. They’re U.S. and European-backed client oligarchies. So this is not only an international war, it’s a class war as well.