Hi everyone.
There's a new UAP story making the rounds. And on the surface, it sounds kind of huge. On the surface,
Dr. Janice Vilhower, a member of the government's new UAP Science Advisory Council, says that the council met at
the office of the Director of National Intelligence, that's ODNI, on August 31st, as as I'm speaking just
a little over one week ago. And during that meeting, according to Velhau,
the they were told that the United States government has a preparedness plan in the event that nonhuman
intelligence is confirmed. And she also says that the United States is prepared to take an international role in this.
So that's all interesting. That gets your attention. Uh Vilhower attached her name to this account. So, this is not just an anonymous rumor. Like, she's
identified the setting uh and the group that received the briefing. So, this is a little more interesting than like the
the typical anom anonymous rumor that you'd get floating around Washington or uh the UFO community for sure.
Even so, a couple of things. So, first of all, we haven't seen the plan. We don't know who wrote this plan. We don't know which agencies
participated in it. Uh we don't know that what what would activate it. We don't know whether it says that non-human intelligence is actually real.
Like that last point. So you can have a contingency plan for what the government
might do if NHI, non-human intelligence, is someday confirmed.
That's a little different from a government document, a document acknowledging that NHI has already been confirmed. So those are two different
totally different things. And right now we don't really know what what what's going on with all that. So what we have is Vilhower's account of what the
council was told. So okay, so something is happening. I guess we can say that. Uh we certainly cannot say
Chapter 2: Recent UAP developments
that this currently deserves the word disclosure.
Um but this story did not appear out of nowhere. So there's been a series of developments during the last few months and I would like to review some of these developments just a little bit with you.
So back in June, the government created uh an inter agency UAP governance board.
So that's another new acronym for us. A UAP governance board. Uh, an ODNI official confirmed this to Christopher
Sharp of the Liberation Times. And, uh, here's a couple of Chris's articles on this. The one on the left is the one
that discusses this. Uh, according to that official, the board brings together the military, uh, law enforcement, the
intelligence community, civilian agencies.
So its work is supposed to include uh UAP investigations and intelligence collection of course and also they're
going to coordinate the declassification process.
Oh and they also support arrow uh in a pretty big way. So, [clears throat] so that governance board is supported by
outside adviserss including the UAP science advisory council that's led by Avi Lobe and
Vilhower serves on that council. So, we've got all of these different organizations here. Got the ODNI, they're involved. You've got the
governance board, the UAP governance board, and now you got the UAP science advisory council. All of these groups. So, okay. Okay, so that was from June.
And then in July, Christopher Sharp reported that a presidential speech had been prepared for Donald Trump. I'll just show you that other article again.
This is the one on the right there. Uh, and according to Sharp's sources for this, the speech would acknowledge that some UFOs are of non-human origin.
Um, Sharp was pretty careful in this article. I think he he said nobody really knew whether Trump would ever
deliver this speech. Uh and it's absolutely the case. Presidential staffs will often prepare all kinds of
contingency speeches for events that never happen. That's that's all the time. So the fact that we have a draft
really all that does is it tells us that someone wanted the language ready.
That's interesting. But it still doesn't tell us anything about uh what President Trump might have decided. Obviously we have no idea.
Uh the other thing in that article by Sharp from July is that he mentioned that there were disclosure advocates both in the public realm and some
somehow from within that were lobbying the White House on on this measure. So um so then that's that. So then on July
30th, uh, Vilhower, uh, a scientist named, uh, Carlos Ira
and Chris Melon published a policy brief through the Disclosure Foundation.
And this this is very interesting. I'm going to get into this in a little detail in just a moment. So, this called on the administration to establish a
national preparedness effort through the Department of Health and Human Services.
I'm going to have that linked uh below in the description and also a longer version of that paper uh which you you
may want to read both of them. So anyway, and then so that led to a month later at the end of August and as I open
this talk, Vilhower attended the ODNI meeting, came away saying that the government already had a preparedness plan. So all these these various
developments I think they fit together and there's two ways that I could look at them or you could look at them. So
one possibility is that they're describing one single effort but that's happening
across the White House uh ODNI the governance board and its outside adviserss.
And there's another possibility that I I'm keeping in mind and I really wonder about this. So we might be watching just
a relatively small Washington network reinforcing itself. So you have a situation where uh disclosure advocates
urge the administration to prepare and then uh outside advisers propose plans.
Journalists then hear from sources that preparations underway.
Then the advisers enter government meetings and they're told that a plan exists. So each new report appears to
confirm the others. And you know everyone involved could be uh sincere about this but the information may still
be coming from the same small circle. um consistency inside that circle can create the appearance of independent
corroboration. I don't really know how that this breaks down, but for now I guess I'll just see say that I see genuine government activity somehow
around UAP. So there's coordination, there's advisers, you got records reviews, there's contingency planning.
Uh all of that is true. I don't yet see evidence that a decision has been made to acknowledge nonhuman intelligence.
Chapter 3: Analyzing the policy proposal
So this policy brief so this uh shows how some of the people close to this
process imagine uh how disclosure will should be handled. So I really want to focus on
this policy paper just a bit. So Vilhower is a clinical psychologist. So you would expect her to approach
disclosure as a problem of psychological adaptation by the public uh public health in general. So the paper that she
co-authored with Chris Melon and um one other gentleman uh
seems to me that they are well they're calling first of all they're calling for a health and human servicesled
task force. It's called the National Disclosure Preparedness Task Force involving
mental health professionals, educators, religious leaders, journalists,
and I guess of course, government agencies.
So in the paper, she and her co-authors expect that most people will probably adapt just fine to
UAP disclosure, but the concern that they have is that there's a smaller vulnerable pop population that could
need help when mental health services are already strained.
So, which I guess I could imagine uh might actually happen after a disclosure about UFOs or excuse me, UAP.
So, fair enough. You can imagine some experiencers reliving trauma if there's an announcement. Uh you can imagine
people with like serious psychiatric problems, they might have a hard time processing this information as well. So
preparing clinicians for that possibility like I can understand that.
So there's other things that this paper recommends. Um they talk about needing to protect government and military personnel
um and aviators, you know, uh commercial pilots um and just civilians, ordinary people in general from any kind of
professional retaliation regarding this subject.
um it's quite reasonable who who's going to argue against that. Now more significant is their proposal for
nationwide behavioral health monitoring.
Yes, nationwide behavioral health monitoring. So there's actually two documents here. So there's the nine-page
uh briefing policy and I'll just show you that here that uh was written by Vilhower, Carlos
and Christopher Melon. And then you have uh this document here. This is a much longer research paper. This is written
by Vilhower and five other psychologists. And I'm going to again link both of these for you in the description box below.
So, the policy brief, the nine-page document, contains the actual proposal for federal monitoring. So, I'm just
going to go through this rather carefully because it really warrants some close attention.
Uh, it basically it doesn't b it does say health and human services should create a system to monitor the public health effects of any major disclosure.
It's kind of a big thing right there. uh and it tells us what that means. So the government would watch for changes in
things like crisis line calls, psychiatric visits uh and admissions,
uh demands for counseling in schools and universities, reported anxiety and sleep problems,
requests for pastoral care, and just disruptions in general in health and social services.
So that's a lot. I mean, you're talking about drawing information from hospitals,
crisis lines, schools, counseling services, religious organizations,
and probably a variety of other institutions, and then watching for changes following a disclosure event.
So the authors say this information should be aggregated. So what that would mean is it's collected and combined into
group level statistics. So like individual information is not included.
So for example, crisis line calls increase 15% nationally. Uh psychiatric admissions rose in this region and that
region. Uh more students requested university counseling and things like that. So ideally the people behind those numbers would remain unidentified.
So all the government would get to see would be patterns and totals not your individual name or case
histories or anything of that sort. Uh that's what their their proposal would be. So, and they say in the brief that the government needs to protect
individual uh privacy and must not create registries based on people's
beliefs or anomalous experiences. And I'm thinking, who's even thinking of creating registries? Like, is this is this in someone's uh you know, to-do
list? Uh, I don't know where that came from, like why that's even an idea, but they're saying, "No, you don't want to create registries based on people's
beliefs about UFOs or UAP or your anomalous experience." Well, that's good to know. Uh, and that the this information must not be passed on to
intelligence and law enforcement agencies for who knows why. So, that's nice that they want to put those
protections in there, but uh, yikes. I mean so they're also revealing the danger inherent in this system right
like once you build a national apparatus for tracking the population's response
to disclosure you have created something and I mean where could that end
how would this system operate even like who would have access to the information how long would the whole thing continue
like is is there a way to prevent mission creep.
So anyway, that's the brief. So there there's a longer research paper that actually goes considerably further. So
that proposes uh uh largecale surveys, focus groups, psychological experiments and and what
it actually calls big data analysis of social media reactions.
So that suggests uh like tracking search activity uh what they call information seeking behavior uh tracking
institutional trust, how well do you trust the government, uh mental health service use and things like changes in
public belief uh as as the whole disclosure process continues.
So this this goes way beyond preparing a few therapists for distressed patients.
Like they these people are envisioning a nationwide system for measuring how the
population thinks and how it reacts and behaves during disclosure.
So, back to the brief, there was one other section in the brief which which sounds like you can almost uh read right past it. It sounds like
boilerplate. Uh a section where the authors advise government communicators uh like it's necessary to distinguish
between established facts, reasonable inferences, and unresolved questions. I
read that the first time. I'm like, well, that's that doesn't really say a whole lot. But then I thought about it.
I'm like, who who decides what counts as an established fact? ODNI, Arrow, the Pentagon,
and what happens when those institutions control the evidence like ODNI or the Pentagon? So, that that's
certainly a part that would bother me that does bother me. You think about this. Washington or people in Washington are con they're confronting the
possibility of the most profound revelation probably in human history right up
there. And what do they want to do? They immediately want to build another apparatus around it. a task force uh an
inter agency strategy, behavioral health monitoring, clinical protocols,
educational guidance, coordinated messaging, approved experts explaining to the
public what what the public's just been told.
It's like it's an instinct with these people. They can't help themselves. I think like the answer is always more management, more getting our fingers
into your business, more coordination, more US government right there in front of you. Uh, ODNI would control the
releasable information. Health and human services would track the public response.
educators, clinicians, religious leaders, journalists. These would be the ones
helping people absorb the authorized account.
If this doesn't turn disclosure into a managed social process, I don't know what does.
Chapter 4: Institutional betrayal
I mean, Vilhower may sincerely want to help vulnerable people. I I have no reason to doubt this. Uh but I just have to say the structure that she and her
co-authors are proposing gives enormous interpretive power to institutions that
at least several of them are surely deeply implicated in UFO secrecy to begin with.
I mean, this here's like this paper talks repeatedly
about trust, about credibility, stigma, propaganda, uh, honest communication.
That's great. Here's a word that never appears. Cover up. Not once.
Neither do you get any of the history behind the whole collapse of public trust, which, you know, let's just lay
it out, suppressed evidence, intimidated witnesses, uh, destroyed records,
manipulated journalists and scientists, secret programs, the denial of information to Congress,
for starters. Like, omitting this is is staggering to me. Like this paper
imagines humanity learning that NHI, that aliens exist,
followed by government agencies and all the approved professionals helping everyone adjust.
Well, let let's compare that to what we might consider an actual disclosure or a genuine disclosure. Like
one that actually genuinely matters to people. Like I'm just going to say
actual disclosure is virtually certainly going to reveal
let us say certainly going to reveal that parts of the United States government have known about this phenomenon for generations.
It will expose hidden evidence if it's genuine, recovered technology,
uh recovered biological material and maybe one or two or more live beings for all I know.
Uh programs operating beyond lawful oversight.
So in that type of a situation, the public would be confronting an institutional betrayal that I don't
even know if we would have words for the enormity of that. So under those circumstances, if you were to be angry, that is a perfectly rational response.
And you may ask, well, Richard, what is this history? What evidence do we have that a UFO coverup has actually existed?
Well, I spent many years thinking about this, writing about this, talking about this. I can't give you the entire
Chapter 5: Historical evidence of UAP
document trail regarding the 80y year long UFO coverup. Uh, not more than a
sliver of it, but let's take a look at that sliver.
So, I will uh let's look at one or two interesting documents and I'll just talk about them a little bit. On September
23rd of 1947, the year that flying saucers exploded into our consciousness,
Lieutenant General Nathan Twining, head of air material command, sent a classified memorandum to the commanding general of the Army Air Forces. Twining
wrote that the reported phenomenon, these flying saucers, was quote something real and not visionary or fictitious.
And it goes on.
He describes objects displaying extreme climb rates, maneuverability, evasive action,
and one of my favorite lines, circular or elliptical in shape, flat on bottom and domed on top.
Uh then you have like as as uh 1947 turned into 1948, things just got crazier and
crazier in terms of these sightings uh in the American Southwest over Los Alamos, over the Oakidge nuclear
facility in Tennessee, uh over the Hanford nuclear uh site in the state of Washington where they built mainly plutonium.
uh these flying saucers were being seen with regularity and were being documented by military personnel and it
was becoming kind of a a thing of concern. So we have uh a number of documents about this. I'm going to point
uh show one of them here to you. This is an FBI document from January 31st, 1949.
It's a really good one. stated that flying sauces were considered top secret by intelligence officers of both the
army and the air force. This is after the FBI participated in a meeting on this subject with all of these um
military intelligence people. And then it went on and had some really interesting things to say about the phenomenon as it was being discussed. Um
talked about repeated observations over Los Alamos and other military installations. Uh it mentioned that the
witnesses included uh agents from the Air Force Office of Special Investigations, military pilots, airline pilots, base
security personnel, uh civilians, and then they talk about the performance estimates which were just astonishing.
So the me it's all here in this memo.
They said recent observations indicated a minimum speed of 3 m per second and a maximum of 12 miles per second.
That converts to uh 10,800 miles hour at the low end and over 43,000
miles hour at the high end. So they calculated the mean to be about 27,000 miles per hour. 27,000 miles per hour.
Um, and by the way, they were just like guesstimating it. They they had instruments known as theolytes that were taking these measurements were very
sophisticated uh as as useful today as they would have been back then. They were accurate.
So, the memo also described um not just speed, but vertical changes in the flight path. So, these objects were
maneuvering. They weren't just following a a ballistic trajectory like a missile would. So you think about the contradiction even back then. So in
public, Americans were hearing uh about oh hallucinations and hoaxes and
conventional aircraft and misidentified natural phenomena
inside the government. This was considered top secret and intelligence officers were
discussing objects maneuvering around the center of the American atomic
weapons program at tens of thousands of miles per hour.
So the government had information of incredible public importance and what it gave the public it gave a completely false impression of what its own agencies were encountering.
And that concern continued for years and years and years, definitely throughout the great UFO wave of 1952.
That was a summer that brought repeated military encounters and radar events, including the famous incidents over
Washington DC. [snorts] Jets were scrambled. Radar operators at Washington National Airport and Andrews Air Force Base were tracking unknown targets.
Pilots saw strange lights in these same areas where the radar people were tracking their targets.
These events reached the White House. They reached the CIA.
And then what happened? Big press conference dismissed it all as weather phenomena. But in the classified world, totally different conclusion.
So, uh, after all of this massive wave of sightings had gone through the whole spring, the whole summer, the fall of 1952,
very dramatic period, the CIA is busy here. And u there is one memo by the director of CIA scientific intelligence.
His name was H. Marshall Chadwell.
And uh, let me pull this slide up here for you.
He's writing to the CIA director Walter Beetle Smith and uh these words definitely deserve to be heard clearly.
Says sightings well first of all he starts and says at this time the reports of incidents convince us that there is something going on that must have
immediate attention. And he says, "Sightings of unexplained objects at great altitudes and traveling at high
speeds in the vicinity of major US defense installations are of such nature that they are not attributable to
natural phenomena or known types of aerial vehicles.
Just, you know, let [snorts] that sink in a little bit. So this is the CIA's senior scientific intelligence official.
He's writing to the director of the CIA and Chadwell said there was something going on that required immediate
attention. Uh he ruled out natural phenomena. He ruled out known aircraft for the incidents that were causing
concern. He stopped short of naming the source.
But you you have to ask yourself once natural phenomena, American aircraft, Soviet aircraft become implausible,
the conventional options begin disappearing very quickly.
And this went on in lots of different places. So u there were a number of of these events around Oakidge, Tennessee,
which make this very very concrete as well. So Oakidge was central to the American nuclear program. Uh its
airspace was restricted. Unknown objects nevertheless appeared over there repeatedly from the late 1940s into the 1950s.
Uh some of these were were seen visually. Some of these were detected on radar. Sometimes both fighters were sent
after them. Uh one of those incidents happened on June 21st, 1952.
Just before 11:00 at night, an unknown object entered the restricted area. A ground witness watched it. Radar tracked
it. An F-47 fighter on combat patrol pursued it. And during the encounter,
the object maneuvered uh several times toward the fighter. The the pilot believed that this thing was trying to ram his jet or his his fighter plane.
And then the object uh left the area.
And then one year later on July 19th, 1953, another witness, a senior employee at Oak Ridge saw another object over the
restricted airspace. And this report came from the Atomic Energy Commission, forerunner of the Department of Energy and it went to the agitant general in
Washington. So according to the witness, this object emerged from a high white cloud and remained visible for about 5
minutes. At different times, it looked cigar- shaped. Uh at other times it looked round. Uh it was described as
extremely black with the appearance of a deep black metallic exterior and a fine gloss. That's in the report. There's a
lot of detail in there. Uh the object did not produce any sound. It didn't have any lights. It left no vapor trail.
So the according to the witness, it flew east at tremendous speed. That's a direct quote. For about three miles, then it stopped. So tremendous speed,
three miles stop and then two more objects joined it and then the three objects formed a spread V formation and
they just left eastward at tremendous speed in the words of the memo.
So this is again near one of the most sensitive nuclear facilities in the United States. And by the way, these these events, all of them moved through
a whole range of government, military, and intelligence channels very very far removed from the public presentation of
Project Blue Book, which was supposed to be the official uh investigation of the flying saucers of the UFOs. But Blue Book didn't get these cases.
Now, you know, sometimes people will hear dates like 1949 and 1952 and they like, "Ah, that's ancient history."
From my perspective, I see it exactly the other way. To me, their age gives them incredible importance.
We're looking at objects potentially traveling at tens of thousands of miles per hour during the late 1940s.
We're looking at objects capable of hovering, stopping, accelerating, changing direction,
operating in formation, and reacting to military interception.
When you look at their behavior in these reports, it suggests a very precise control and a very advanced operational capability.
They behave like mature technology, not like uh you know uh you know something that we're just testing.
They they look they operate very precisely controlled fully operational.
I [clears throat] think this is important to recognize.
You know more than 50 years later the the tic tac appeared during the Nimttz encounter of uh 2004.
And once again, you had highly trained military personnel encountering an object with no visible wings, no conventional
propulsion. Uh, this object also hovered and accelerated rapidly and responded to an intercept and appeared at a
pre-arranged combat air patrol point uh 60 mi away before our own jets got there.
Some people have suggested that the tic tac was an American black budget project. Well, all right. Uh, if you want to go there, then what was
operating over Los Alamos and Oakidge or White Sands and and Washington half half a century earlier?
Uh if those early pro uh objects were secret American technology, well then I think you just have to say
the United States had mastered a revolutionary form of aerospace performance immediately after the end of the sec second world war.
like they would have had enough control over this technology to conduct absolutely precise operations
not only around sensitive facilities around uh the United States and evade military aircraft but to do this around
the world because this was a global phenomenon and around the world on a virtually daily basis.
So we did that.
Uh this technology if we if we did create it had no visible effect on the Korean War, on Vietnam, the American space program, uh the Gulf War, the
global war on terror, uh or any acknowledged generation of military aviation.
You think about our aerospace technology during those years, it changed incredibly. You go from propeller
aircraft in the 40s to jets and missiles and satellites, stealth aircraft, now drones.
And yet UFO performance or UAP performance remained ahead of every generation.
So thing about these early cases is that they they create a technological continuity problem for the secret project explanation.
I would say their age is part of the evidence.
So I'll leave that there for now. I want to talk a little bit about the management of this as a public problem, a public narrative. Um because that's
kind of related to this this uh policy brief that I' I've been talking about.
So, back in January 1953, again, ancient history, the CIA convened what would be come known as the Robertson panel, um,
met in secret. They reviewed some selected UFO material for a few days, not even a full work week, really. But
Chapter 6: The strategy of deception
that recommendation shaped official policy for years and years and years. So, what did they do?
They called for a broad effort to reduce public interest in UFOs. how through debunking efforts and what they called education.
So they suggested using mass media, advertising, schools
and uh entertainment companies like Walt Disney all for this purpose. Um they also recommended monitoring civilian UFO
organizations. They had to be watched because they had potential for subversion. Yes,
was in there. Meanwhile, however, military reporting of UFOs continued under very strict controls. There's a
document known as Janap 146, uh, which created very explicit channels for
pilots to report sightings of UFOs that were considered important for national security. That had nothing to do with
Project Blue Book. These reports went to places like Air Defense Command and the Secretary of Defense and the CIA and
other agencies like that. So then in 1969, the US Air Force closes Project Blue Book and says to the public, "Well,
you know, we've ended our UFO investigation. We've got the whole thing solved. There's really nothing to this." Well, the government did not stop investigating UFOs.
All the sensitive UFO reports continued to go through all the systems that people just never even knew existed. You
know, the visible investigation was closed down while all the national security reporting continued.
So, all of that, all of those official documents, everything that I've just said there, that is take to the bank.
It's cut and dry. Uh government documents make it absolutely crystal clear. Even a number of the recent uh so-called tranch releases from the Trump
White House. A lot of those PDF documents uh actually make this very clear as well. A lot of that information is right in these documents.
So all of that establishes things like secrecy, deception, and genuine concern
about these unknown, highly advanced objects.
But now what the documents don't establish definitively is recovered craft or alien bodies. So
let me just talk about that for a minute because that brings us to a different body of evidence. Still quite valuable.
So one of my heroes in the UFO research uh business was Leonard Stringfield.
Never got to meet Leonard Stringfield. I always regretted that. Died in 1994. But this is a man who spent about two
decades investigating claims of UFO crash retrievals from the late7s up until 1994.
Uh he communicated with military officers, intelligence personnel,
medical professionals, engineers, and just people who said they had participated in
recovery, transport, examination, or storage operations of of craft or sometimes of actual alien bodies.
So, by the time Stringfield died in 1994, he said that he had 45
firsthand sources who claimed to have seen alien craft or or andor bodies
in US government custody. 45 firsthand sources. He had many many more that were one step removed like for example the
spouse of a deceased service member something like that u much [clears throat] more than 45 of those but he had 45 firsthand witnesses quite a lot. So he followed hundreds of leads.
Uh some of them went nowhere but some were quite amazing. But again and again his sources described uh small humanoid
bodies, unusual anatomy, uh autopsies, uh highly secure transportation,
military recovery teams, restricted facilities, uh extreme compartmentalization. All of this came through again and again in his
in his accounts that he received and Wright Patterson Air Force Base that came up repeatedly.
Uh witnesses often described um orders to remain silent or their fear of losing their pensions or their clearances or their careers or or worse.
So, 45 firsthand sources, maybe not the same as a declassified program file, but you you just can't dismiss that with a
shrug. If they were all lying or mistaken, you still have to wonder why military, medical, and intelligence
people often separated by many, many years and totally different circumstances, are
producing the same basic account to Stringfield.
So that was Stringfield. Then comes David Grush. 2023, David Grush testifies under oath before Congress
that he had learned through his official duties of a multi-deade crash retrieval and reverse engineering program.
Chapter 7: Demanding a real reckoning
He said he had interviewed approximately 40 witnesses over four years.
He said that non-human biological material had been recovered.
He said people with direct knowledge remained inside the program.
He said that he had been denied access and that he could provide specific names and program information in a classified setting.
So you look at these two investigations and they are both investigations separated by several decades.
Stringfield and Grush. They converge on recovered craft, biological remains,
technology study, tight compartmentalization, and concealment from lawful oversight.
That's a tremendous amount of smoke here.
Not all the evidence is of the same strength, sure, but the weaker material does not erase the stronger material.
the pattern is very consistent.
So when you take that testimony and you place that beside the official record of extraordinary performance, nuclear site
incursions, secret reporting channels, and deliberate public debunking, I think we have a reasonable conclusion.
This is very difficult to avoid. What does this look like? It looks like a long-standing cover up that has concealed evidence of a nonhuman alien presence here on planet Earth.
And I want to choose my words carefully.
So the document record proves the cover up of extraordinary UAP activity. Proves it. The full crash retrieval program that is unagnowledged.
Okay. But this is clearly what things look like. I would I would say it looks like that to any reasonable mind objectively reviewing the evidence.
So I want to return now to this supposed preparedness plan. So if the government
is preparing to acknowledge non-human intelligence, let's just say uh I would
say psychological support could have a place. Sure. it belongs far down the list of urgent
responsibilities. Pretty far down. Uh here's what I think the government would have to do before it deals with any of that other stuff. Uh it [clears throat and snorts] would have to
tell us what it knows. It would have to tell us how it knows what it knows and how long it has known what it knows. It
would have to release the historical records.
It would have to address crash retrieval and reverse engineering allegations.
It would have to explain how congressional oversight was avoided.
Private contractors would have to be examined.
Witnesses would need secure channels. Uh they would need legal protection. They would need access to Congress.
I might imagine that some form of let's say limited immunity might be required to bring some participants forward.
immunity would not be a blanket eraser for serious crimes. I don't want to be misunderstood here. Uh
you probably have to find some balance in there. I mean, if you want to criminalize everyone who is even somewhat involved in this, you're probably not going to get a whole lot of
information, but that's a whole other problem. We can hash that out if it ever even comes up.
Um you would need a genuinely independent body that would have access to the evidence. Genuinely independent.
how that would be construed, that'd have to be we'd have to figure that out. Uh intelligence agencies cannot retain
exclusive control over the facts while at the same time asking the public to trust their account of those facts.
Uh there would also need to be a historical reckoning like who created the policy of debunking like you we'd want to know these things. Who
intimidated witnesses? Even if these people are not any longer alive, who withheld records? Who lied [snorts] to elected officials?
Which presidents knew? What what were they told if they knew anything?
How much scientific work has gone into these programs? And what's been buried inside classified or these corporate programs?
Like those issues.
Those issues would create a much greater crisis of trust than any simple
announcement that non-human intelligence exists.
So this is why that policy paper just feels so detached from reality. At least in my view, it's
like it's preparing institutions to manage the public response, but at the same time, it's leaving the whole
history of institutional misconduct, I would say, treachery untouched.
It's it's imagining disclosure uh like as if it arrives as this authorized
announcement from a government and and its legitimacy government legitim legitimacy is completely intact
and that's not very likely. That might be the disclosure Washington would prefer. I have no doubt. But it definitely will not be the final form of
disclosure that the public is going to be accepting. I think we can say that pretty confidently.
So, I started this talk by discussing a potential UAP disclosure statement. Uh, let me
just tie that up before I wrap this all up. I I guess the most likely explanation for the current story is probably the one that Christopher Sharp
Chapter 8: Conclusion
has been reporting for the last few months. Uh, a White House centered effort involving UAP records. We've got that
going on. uh an inter agency board, some outside advisors, and contingency planning.
I don't really know if that amounts to anything. If that's just like, you know, let's just give the people something something to
talk about if anything's going to come out of this. I mean, I suppose in theory, you could say that could eventually lead somewhere.
Doubtful. Very doubtful. I mean, Washington produces plans all the time that stay on shelves forever. So,
that public process that we've already been talking about, I guess I will judge it by what it releases and what access
it creates. And there's still like a lot of promises that they're giving us. And so far, we haven't really seen any of those promises to come to fruition. But
um if if it actually produces like meaningful historical records um and and like protected firsthand
testimony if it produces meaningful congressional access
and evidence that independent people can examine. Those would be those would be useful.
Those could be those could be things that we could say okay we'll accept that. Let's have more. That's a big ask
and I I'm really not expecting it. I doubt that many people really are. Um if
however this whole process produces uh another
carefully worded acknowledgement followed by coordinated messaging
and public health monitoring and continued secrecy around the legacy
programs. Uh well then we're looking at nothing other than disclosure management.
So when I hear that Washington has a plan to prepare us for NHI, I would like to see it. I would like to know what
these officials believe people must be prepared to learn.
Are they preparing for the discovery that we've never been alone?
uh like if that were to happen one day or are they preparing for the public to learn that its own government has hidden
the most important fact in human history for 80 years give or take. Like until we see the plan
uh until we see the evidence and the historical accounting this is not disclosure not by a long shot.
So something seems to be happening in Washington. Okay, we want to watch it closely and and we also just want to
remember who controls the information, who built the old secrecy system, and
who now wants responsibility for managing our reaction when some portion of the truth finally comes out.
After 80 years, a managed fragment of the truth uh just ain't going to cut it.
Well, that's all I have for you. If you like this program, please click the like but button, subscribe to my channel, share the video, go visit my website at richolmembers.com.
I'll see you soon. Meanwhile, let's keep fighting the good fight. Bye for now.
￼
All
￼
For you

