Chapter 1: Introduction, Ryan Perkins joins from Beijing
All right, Alexander, we are here with Ryan Perkins joining us on the Duran for the first time. Ryan, you have an
excellent Substack. Would you like to let people know where that uh where they can find that Substack and then we'll get started with our discussion?
Yeah. Uh my substack is Ryan Perkins Geopolitics and the Twitter is China indicator.
All right. I will have those as links in the description box down below and as a pinned comment. Alexander Ryan, we have a lot to discuss. So, let's jump right
into it. We have a huge amount to discuss and no one better to discuss it with than Ryan. Now, Ryan and I met in during during my recent trip to Russia.
Uh Ryan is mostly based in Beijing, but he's also a frequent traveler to Russia.
He has very much his finger on the pulse of what is taking place in both countries. And of course he's also very
very uh um familiar with the uh world of finance and business and economics which
is an area that he writes about uh consistently and very interestingly and
he's been writing a lot about the crisis in the Middle East and the Persian Gulf
and what this actually implies for China and what the United states might
actually be up to. And um I think that is absolutely topic we need to discuss with Ryan because there's been a lot of
discussion about what the situation in the Middle East is. A lot of see a lot of people assume that the United States
is just blundering along, but Ryan thinks that they have a more considered strategy.
And I should say that also over the course of this program there was been a major uh meeting in Vladivosto an economic forum that took place there.
Putin was there the Chinese were there.
Ryan was in Vladivosto and it would be useful at the end of this program really helpful at the end of this program if
Ryan could fill us in with his impressions. But let's start with the situation in the oil and energy markets
and the financial markets and perhaps you can explain to us what you think the Americans are up to.
Chapter 2: Researching the Iran war strategy since March
So um I started writing about this shortly after the war started in March um because the initial picture didn't it
didn't look right to me. So
[clears throat]
I started to um I started to look into the all of the policy papers and the
strategic literature um that preceded the war. And one of the things that I one of the things I noticed was that
across across time and across institutions there was a general consensus um over the last 10 15 20
years of policy papers that um two things were two things were consistent.
The first was that um uh the success of a regime change
operation in Iran was consistently considered unlikely um with a shortterm with a short sharp
regime change uh military operation. It was also considered unlikely with a
longer protracted air campaign. Um and absent a major land component um really there was there wasn't really very much chance of it succeeding.
And the second factor was that again across all of the institutions and across time the consensus was that in
the event of a military operation Iran would close the straight. Um so the second thing that I was looking
at was the effect of the fertilizer crisis. um on particularly India because
I I uh was able to identify India as probably one of the as probably the
major exposed uh the most exposed major economy.
Um and the the the fourth thing was um the
inconsistency in the oil price market in the market for oil. Um, and so I started
to sort of piece it together and it increasingly looked as though the energy prices were being uh suppressed through
financial means in the financial markets. Um, and again I wasn't quite sure what I was looking at. So I started trying to put the pieces together in
different ways. So I began to speculate
[clears throat]
if the if the closure of the straits was a known outcome, if the failure of the
regime change operation was a known outcome.
Chapter 3: Was closing the Strait of Hormuz the real goal
Um perhaps the closure of the straits was the actual intention of the operation. Perhaps that was the
long-term goal. So the next stage is to look at what are the implications of that. And the immediate implications
were the fertilizer shortage and energy shortage.
Add to that that it looked as though the energy markets were being uh suppressed.
Um I say that because realistically when you when you look at what was occurring, it was uh long-term
energy infrastructure destruction across the region.
Add into that then you have Venezuela and then add into that you have uh the EU sanctions um which are increasingly
targeting Russia's ability to export energy outside the region. Um and it
looked like there was a concerted effort to to create an energy shortage but also to hide that energy shortage.
So the next question is how long can that energy shortage be be hidden realistically?
And if you're trying to weaponize these two things, the optimum time for them to synchronize is in the northern
hemisphere uh the northern hemisphere harvest season because the uh the fertilizer shortage started at the
beginning of the northern hemisphere's planting season. So, if you give a six-month uh a six-month timetable from
the fertilizer shortage to when that feeds through into food supplies, um that's going to create the maximum
economic impact for those two to synchronize roughly and I actually put this in the article. I said it should begin to synchronize around about
September, October time. Um, and this is one of uh last Friday I woke up and I
watched uh Alex's um uh Alex's video and it opened with Scott Besson saying we're about to enter an energy shock which was
which is you know I felt that that was a a bit of a vindication.
Um so yeah um that uh I think is the primary
I think the primary purpose of the Iran war is to shape the economic landscape in a way that facilitates this trap. So
Chapter 4: The pro Yuan hypothesis explained
the next stage is then to look at the vulnerabilities. So what what are the potential vulnerabilities in in this
situation if you uh synchronize a [laughter] food and fuel shock to occur
at roughly the same time? And that led me to um a hypothesis that I that I called the um the pro-uan hypothesis.
Um and uh yep, I can I can go into a bit more more detail on that. Um, but I when
I wrote it, which I wrote it I published I published it in April and I published it sort of speculatively because you know I didn't I couldn't
prove it was happening but it just I had a feeling that it made sense. Um
because it made a lot more sense than a lot of the other narratives that I that I was reading. Um this and I think it's
important I always I always think it's important to understand that the incompetence narrative is often used by
the western media to bridge the gap between what is deemed uh a policy
imperative and public acceptance in a democracy. So if this was the plan, then
they had presumably calculated what the sort of costs and the collateral damage would be and had deemed those costs
acceptable. So it's then it's necessary to create a narrative of incompetence that you know it the whole thing's gone wrong and yeah a lot of unforeseen
Chapter 5: Scott Bessent and his history of market manipulation
circumstances. Um, but the key point, one of the key points for me when I put it all together was suddenly realizing
that at the center of all this sat Scott Besson and Scott Besson is a man who has
made billions of dollars um doing precisely this kind of thing uh
manipulating markets um in a way to exert financial leverage o over different currencies.
So, uh, sorry. Do you want me to do you want me to work through? Yes. Yes. I I think so.
Are you doing it very You're doing You're doing it very clearly. So, so if you could please do that. Yes.
Yeah. So, um, first of all, uh, the key thing was to
calculate roughly what I thought, you know, where prices were likely to go.
Chapter 6: Oil price predictions toward 150 dollars a barrel
And I think at the time I calculated roughly about a 10% increase in food global food prices and then the energy
shock should be I and I mean you know I'm I am speculating now but I mean by
the end of the year if it car if it if the situation carries on unchanged if the supply situation carries on
unchanged which it which looks possible which looks likely at at the moment given the sort of periodic escalations
um probably looking in the range of about $150 a barrel for oil um I would
say that roughly by the end of next week we'll probably by the end of this week sorry we'll probably break $100 and by
the end of the month um possiblyund 120 125 possibly by the end of the month
heading towards 150 towards the end of the year. So when you when you sort of map out how that feeds through the the
global economy and you look for the vulnerabilities, um it becomes clear that this is uh a
weapon that is aimed um it has three three main targets. Um the first target,
the primary target is China. Um and it's clearly an attempt to
Chapter 7: The three targets, China, BRICS and the Global South
extend um a policy of economic containment around
China, an extension of the the military and political containment regime that's
been going on for for a while. um to fracture the solidarity of bricks um and
to act as a as an object warning uh to the global south um so as a warning to
any nation that's considering bricks alignment um to
make them consider whether or not they want to choose solidarity with bricks or the sort of relative short-term safety of of the dollar zone.
Chapter 8: India's triple exposure to the crisis
So um the vulnerabilities um in one in one of the first articles I wrote which was about India um India is very very
exposed um it's exposed on three fronts because um most of its fertilizer and
fertilizer feed stock comes from uh the straight of Hormuz
as does a uh 80% of India imports 80% of its oil and the vast majority of that
comes through the straight of horos um and then you have the currency vulnerability as well because as India
begins uh as India's import bill begins to climb so pressure on the rupee is
going to intensify um and that potentially can lead into a a kind of import price depreciation
spiral Um so that's that's India. Brazil um is also very heavily exposed to the
fertilizer side of the problem. Um and Brazil is now experiencing that problem.
I think it was three or four weeks ago or yeah, three or four weeks ago, um Reuters actually
ran an article uh saying uh explaining how Brazilian farmers are now Brazilian
soybean farmers are now losing their um advantage over US soybean farmers um
precisely precisely because of this. Um and then um the interesting part is
Chapter 9: China's industrial value added vulnerability
looking at the Chinese economy. Um and I when I when I'm explaining this, you have to understand like I'm I'm
explaining what I think the plan is. I'm explaining what I think the strategy is.
I'm not I'm not saying it's going to work. Um because there's a lot of there's a lot of variables at play, but
I think this I think this is the strategy. Um, so far I was able to identify two kind of uh
pretty pretty fairly serious vulnerabilities and I think they're the kind of vulnerabilities that somebody like Scott
Bessant would have identified. Um, so the first one is in China's industrial
value added. So the industrial value added is the gap um between what goes
into the factory and what comes out of the factory.
Um now China has a lot of you know worldbeating brands. It has a lot of um
very high-tech industries, but it also has a huge small and medium-siz
manufacturing sector. And those those companies, those factories, they make everything that everybody in the world
uses. Um and they're very very price dependent. Um they're very very
sensitive to input costs. So for example uh during the during the early uh period
of the pandemic you see something very very interesting happen in China's industrial value added
um it effectively collapses because due to supply chain constraints um the
purchasing price index yeah the purchasing price index sorry um
goes up but the consumer price index doesn't. So what happens is that huge
wave of global inflation that was generated in the early days of the pandemic was literally absorbed by the
Chinese manufacturing sector to the extent that industrial value added falls very very dramatically and most of those
manufacturers uh or a lot of those manufacturers were able to um
uh they were able to effectively subsidize their operations at the part by uh laying off workers, drawing on
savings um and cut and cutting costs as much as they could. Um immediately
afterwards uh the Chinese Chinese government steps in with an enormous industrial package where it defers um
utility payments. It defers tax payments. It offers ultra cheap credit um from the from the state banking
sector um in order to keep that sector afloat.
But it was able to do that primarily because it understood that uh it was a it was an inherently shortterm problem.
So it was able to use this sort of fiscal expansion to to bridge to normal
if if you like. Um in the current situation um it will be much much harder to do that for a number
of reasons. Um the current situation could potentially last 18 months to two
years perhaps you know who knows. Um and so in that situation there isn't
really anywhere to bridge to um which you know
limits limits the extent to which the the government will be able to launch a similar a similar kind of package.
The other major vulnerability is in and it's the vulnerability that most people
Chapter 10: The offshore Yuan and dollar system asymmetry
would have thought was a strength. Um and that comes so
most people think that because China is expanding its international payment system that insulates it uh from the
sort of predatory nature of the US dollar system. And that's not that's true but only to a very very limited
extent. Um because the rest of the global financial architecture is
primarily uh well it's almost entirely constructed from from dollars. Um, so if you think
of these kind of payment systems as perhaps think of it as a as a train and then think of all of the supporting
infrastructure for that train is built from dollars, it creates an asymmetry and that's that's the asymmetry that I
think um will be exploited. So, just to clarify exactly what that means, uh, China currently purchases around
about half of its oil um in R&B. So, in in Chinese currency, um,
45% of the oil that it buys from Saudi Arabia, it pays for in R&B. I think
about 20% um 20% from the UAE, but 99% from from Russia. Now, if you're Saudi
Arabia or even Russia, actually, if you're if you're one of these countries, there's a limit to how much of that R&B
you can recycle um into uh Chinese goods, Chinese services, and Chinese financial instruments.
And that means that the rest um over and above that you will change on the open
market. uh into primarily dollars but also other currencies. Saudi Arabia in particular will need to change a lot of
that into dollars in order to service its dollar denominated investments.
What this does is it creates a pool of um R&B that exists outside of
outside of China's direct control because it's openly traded um in Hong Kong, Singapore, and in London.
Now, that means that there are it's one currency, but there's two exchange rates. So you have the exchange rate
that operates outside of China and the exchange rate that operates inside which is set by the people's bank of China.
Now the pool of R&B that is outside of the Chinese Chinese banking systems
control is relatively small. Um, so
as that price of oil goes up, more and more China will be spending more and more R&B to purchase it.
And that means that more and more of it will be changed at the in the in the open market. And that in and of itself
will put immediate downward pressure on that on that currency. And that creates a problem because China needs to
maintain a peg between those two exchange rates.
And how do you do that? So in the past, China has been able to maintain this peg
by uh through through through limited um liquidity interventions in in that pool.
Um I think uh what is about to happen is that I think that the effect of the price
rise um well the effect of the price rise will be too great um to be solved by a limited liquidity intervention.
Um so in that situation how do you defend that currency? you can uh
intervene by trying to buy back the currency on the open market. Um or uh
you can raise interest rates. Now that what that does is that puts China in a it puts China in a uh in the in in a
dilemma because the uh the fiscal policy necessary to support those small and
mediumsiz enterprises is directly opposed to the kind of policies that will be necessary to support the
exchange rate of the offshore uran and I think I think that is the
uh the vulnerability that I think Scott Bessant is um or or you know the US
administration is uh attempting to or will attempt to exploit in in the near future. So yeah, we have
um a great deal of of pressure being exerted on on Brazil also um Pakistan,
India, uh Pakistan, Egypt and Kenya will be um among amongst the most affected by
the fertilizer short fertilizer and fuel prices. But of course the whole of the global south, the whole of the global south as well. But again, China is a
different story because China actually is more or less I believe is actually self-suffici more or less self-sufficient in fertilizer.
um to the extent that at the beginning of this crisis in April uh per yeah perhaps March but anyway at
the start of the crisis India actually asked China to help it with fertilizer um which I think given the given the
sort of broader geopolitical landscape that shows a degree of desperation. So I think yeah that's that's that's
Chapter 11: The trap, engineering a Chinese industrial recession
the trap. That's um what I think uh what I think the Iran war is ultimately
designed to engineer I in effect an industrial recession in
China. Um a situation where the Chinese government cannot support medium and small range manufacturing. And by the
way uh when I went to China which is about you know while back 2017 the thing that really did strike struck
me and struck me very immediately was [clears throat] what an enormous
sector this is. Every single Chinese uh you know locality that I went to seemed
to have its you know small businesses and small industries uh producing things. I mean truly is uh the workshop
of the world if you like in that in that respect and this is actually on quite a small scale and probably the the margins
that these people work under are probably extremely tight which is what tends to happen when you see this. So
create an put these people in a situation where they are under enormous economic pressure because either
interest rates go up or other action has to be taken to try to protect the
currency. and an industrial recession affecting those people in particular
would have a a a major impact
within China and on Chinese society greater perhaps than the tariff wall
that the administration experimented with last year would have. So that is that is the trap. Yes. Now the Chinese
Chapter 12: How China has been preparing for years
whatever they are they are extremely intelligent people. They presumably are thinking about all of this. What can
they do in preparation for it?
Um so um the first thing is that China has been preparing for China has China
has been preparing for this for at least 10 years. you know, more like 15 but possibly 20. I think I think uh
everybody in the senior leadership understood that at some point it was going to come to some kind of uh economic uh some kind of economic war.
Um and one of the things that China's been doing is it's been trying to sort of energy proof its economy. um when you
see these enormous investments in uh renewable energy um uh electric vehicles these kinds of
things. So it's trying to build sort of buffers in every stage of its economy.
Um specifically this year we've seen a lot of activity in the financial sector where China's just China's
trying to re in um is trying to get all of its balance sheets in order. So, it's
it's created um uh it's created um currency swap agreements. Um created um
uh it's stopped um bonds being issued in in dollars. Um there's a lot there's
there's a lot that that's going on in in terms of preparation.
um whether I mean I'm if I've if I've spotted this then I would imagine that the the Chinese have spotted it because if there's one country in the world that
does do long-term planning very very well it's it's China well they'll be reading your articles
for one thing I'm sure they I'm sure they have but but um they they create buffers I I in terms of financial
currency interventions attempts to um avoid sharp increases in interest rates.
And I think this is this is I think the key point that you're making. We would not be looking at an interest rate, you
know, gradual increase in interest rates. If you have basically a currency crisis because of this uh situation with
shall we say the floating R&B then you would be looking at a very sharp
dramatic increase in interest rates to stabilize that situation. So which is particularly difficult a particularly
difficult shock for the kind of business people that you're talking about who by the way employ a huge number of people
in China. I mean this would be a massive societal shock if it if it were to happen. Um I I mean what would the
buffers be to avoid doing that? I mean, can I just make it one one obvious point which I'm sure some of the people who
are watching this program would say which is what why does China need to
protect the the if you like the floating R&B as um relative to its own internal R&B?
Why why would it need to protect it in that kind of way? What would be the effect if it cut it cut it off? I I mean
I I could venture some guesses which is that it would probably be at the moment when the entire bricks financial
architecture would would start to crumble. But but but tell us what you think.
That's exactly it. Yeah, it would be I mean that is the unthinkable option. So realist I mean
the problem is the really big problem is that in this situation China has very very limited options because as you said the options are to
um sharply raise interest rates essentially attempt to make that R&B more attractive to hold. One of the
other things that they've introduced is they've allowed um institutions to borrow R&B against the bonds the R&B bonds that have been issued. So they can
just borrow straight from the uh straight from the central bank of China and that's designed to encourage people not to not to sell when the price starts
to drop. Um but yes um that sharp that that this is it this is why it's
such a this is why it's such a devious trap because um
in order to try and make the R&B more attractive to hold raising those interest rates it precludes the kind of
financial uh fiscal the sort of stimulus package that was used the last time this happened during the early stages of
COVID. So that creates it is it is a real dilemma. Um
Chapter 13: Reassessing the tariff war as a pressure test
I mean and just to go back to one of the things you mentioned when you were talking about the the tariff trade war the tariff wars I in light of this and
we've all throughout the summer I've been publishing updates on this um as kind of more and more pieces of fit into place and I've always said it was a
hypothesis. I don't, you know, I don't have solid proof that this is the this is the strategy. But as the pieces
slowly start to fall into place, um I started to think about the tariff war and increasingly
I think it wasn't as ramshackle and and kind of impulsive um as um the media
portrayed it. I think looking back, it was essentially a way for the US to test
for vulnerabilities and to um look at the possible um avenues of retaliation
that China would be able to exert if it if it came to this. Um, and I think, you
know, having um having somebody like Trump gives you gives you that ability to make it look like it's just, you
know, it's just bluff and bluster and it's just, you know, it's the old the old the old the scenile old man, you know, who doesn't know what he's doing.
But I I increasingly if this was if this is the plan then I I think that those um
those tariffs were in many ways an opportunity to test what what is the retaliation pathways if we do this and
see if we do that let's let's see how that feeds through feeds through the system. Um, yeah. So, right.
Yeah. [snorts] I I I I should just quickly further say
that we have been through something not entirely unlike this before. And that affected the United States and the
position of the dollar as well which was back in the 60s with world where we had fixed exchange rates and um um very
controlled conversion of currencies. One of the one of the things that became increasingly destabilizing to that
system was the fact that the United States there was a pool of dollars, an ever growing pool of dollars outside the
United States beyond the direct control of the US Federal Reserve and the US Federal authorities. The so-called Euro
dollar as people were talking about it then people the word Euro dollar constantly shifts meanings. But if you're talking about the late 60s, early
70s, that was a major factor in creating the instabilities within the system that
basically caused the whole system of fixed exchange rates associated with Bretonwoods to collapse in the early
'7s. uh led to the floating of currencies at that time which was a major shock much bigger shock than
people today remember but I remember it well because I lived through it I I was there when it all happened so so someone
like Bessant will be familiar with that whole history and will know exactly how
to test this and of course another attempt to create a system of fixed exchange rates happened in the '9s in
the late 80s early 90s with the them so-called exchange rate mechanism the
mechanism uh and and who exactly and who broke that who broke that Scott broke that
199 took it with with with George Soros so to say that this is too complicated
an idea for someone like him is it would simply not be correct. Soros was there when as I said we had the Euro dollar
Chapter 14: Bessent and Soros, a pattern of currency attacks
crisis in the late 60s early 70s. He was already there and Besson was not only there but he was very active in the erm
the euro the the crisis in the European exchange rate system in the early 1990s.
Now, you did see he did he did something very similar. He did something similar in Japan in 19 in
2012. Um, and of course he did it in in Iran in in January of this year.
Exactly. He has he has record. He has a record here. So, this is not far-fetched
given the person we're talking about at all.
Um however it does have implications for the western economies too in the
sense that you now do have an energy shock, a food price shock. It's having
an impact within the United States. It is having an impact within Europe. It does seem a very reckless thing to do to
play games with the stability of the western economies in the hope that you can somehow crash
China and China whatever his vulnerabilities is a very big place to crash. I mean it does seem a very very reckless thing to do. Is
this the kind of thing that a US Treasury Secretary ought to be doing?
It's the kind of thing that a that a fund manager and speculator does, but a
treasury secretary is supposed to be approaching things in a more conservative way. One would have thought.
Yeah. So, um okay, I don't at this point I don't think the objective is to like I
Chapter 15: The real goal, a new Plaza Accord with China
don't think the objective is to break China. And as I wrote in April, um I think the objective is to try and create
um enough economic leverage over China that they will be able to force um when I say plaza accord a plaza accord type
agreement. I don't mean you know it's not a it's not a carbon copy. It's something that would be functionally
similar. So the Plaza Accord was signed in 1985 um by Japan and it was a you know so um
an agreement under which um Japan would allow its currency to revalue. Um what
happened was uh when the currency began to revalue um suddenly hot money flooded into the economy uh sorry when the
currency when they when it revalued um it it crushed Japan's export sector um
and the Japanese government responded by creating an enormous flood of cheap money. Um and what that did was that
just inflated a whole series of asset bubbles across the entire economy and then uh the US Treasury increased
interest rates which then deflated all of those bubbles and and created you know the last decade um this sort of
long period of of deflation. Um, I think that the United States is attempting to
engineer something similar to that essentially to uh slow down the Chinese economy,
potentially contain it for a period of time in order for it to
um buy time to reindustrialize or or revitalize their economy. That's not
that's not going to happen. I mean um the idea I I you know there is no blueprint for reindustrializing a
country um and the primary reason why the United States de-industrialized is because of the United because of the US dollar's reserve status.
Yeah. You know, it's simply if you if you operate a global empire of capital,
the time horizons um and the structure of your capital management is completely incompatible
with um with the needs of industry um and and your you know it it your
exchange rate is wrong. Um, it it's the only way that the United States will re-industrialize is if and when the
United States see when the if and when the US dollar ceases to be the global reserve currency. And what's interesting is, and I've written quite a lot about
this too, is that Germany, what's happening in Germany is not um the de-industrialization that's taking place
in Germany is not an exclusively um modern thing. It's it's a process
that's been ongoing since reunification and it's accelerated um with the creation of the Euro zone.
And that's a similar thing. It's Germany taking on a role within the Euro zone that's almost analogous to the United States role in the dollar zone.
Um but of course subordinated to the US dollar. Um but as Germany has kind of
increasingly financialized its its economy um it's transitioning is going through a similar kind of de-industrialization that the United
States went through and and for for much the same reasons and the same reason that Britain did in the late 19th century.
I I was going to make I was going to make that very important. Can can we can we pivot back to what you were saying about India and Brazil because one of
Chapter 16: India and Brazil pivoting back toward the US
the things that we've been talking a bit about on our programs um recently and which has been controversial in some
with some people is that India and Brazil have been in their own ways pivoting back to the US in some in some
respects. India in particular has been trying to get the Russians to agree to a ceasefire in Ukraine. It became very
clear that that was the case at the uh meeting the recent SEO meeting in Bishkek. Um Modi spoke about it quite openly um and did so directly to Putin.
Lula has been doing the same thing for some time. And on top of that and and aside from all of that, we have also
been saying and we get we've also been getting some push back from this that the relations between China and Iran
have not been entirely happy over the last few months and China has been
particularly concerned about the closure of the straight of Hmoose. So all of these things, the Indians, the
Brazilians trying aligning in effect with American policy at the moment and China telling the Iranians, look, please
hurry up, open up the street of Hormoose. This has to happen. I mean, it dovetailes very closely with the points that you've just been making over the course of this program.
Chapter 17: Why the BRICS payment system stalled
Yeah. So um uh the this kind of alternative um economic uh or or
financial architecture that BRICS has been trying to develop. Um [snorts] there was a lot of momentum towards it.
Um uh when Russia was held the presidency of bricks and then as soon as it moved
to um Brazil it just completely stalled and then once it got to India again just
absolutely absolutely nothing. Um I you know I I strongly suspect this is under
pressure from under pressure from the United States. I mean this is exactly the kind of architecture that that would have that would have given China um a lot of options in this situation.
Um having that kind of supporting infrastructure outside of the dollar zone [snorts] um
would have created more options for China. And I actually published an article uh a few earlier today uh
looking at the Modi intervention in Tash Kent um and looking at the kind of pressures that are building inside
India. So when I wrote the piece about India in March about the fertilizer
crisis um I identified India as probably the most exposed of the major economies.
Um, and I strongly suspected that that fertilizer crisis would start feeding
through into a a food shortage or a food fruit food production reduction around
about harvest time. Now I wasn't right actually on that because what happened was India
uh went out and aggressively bought fertilizer and feed stock on the open market at the uh much higher prices. So
it was recently buying ura at uh twice the price of the precrisis uh price.
Um and it did that um it it it purchased it at the increased
price on the open market and then it provided that to the farmers um at a hugely subsidized price. So India has
effectively just taken the economic shock from the straight of Hormuz and simply just moved it straight onto the government balance sheet. um
[clears throat] that's creating a a big um uh uh budget that's creating big
budget issues in India. Um but it's also already starting to put downward pressure on the rupee. And I said in the
I said in today's article, you know, this is the first visible sign that the trap is that the trap is working. Um it
doesn't mean India's India's not going to leave the bricks. They're not going to make a formal announcement that they're leaving, but they'll just start
to behave in ways that make their participation basically meaningless.
And Brazil is is coming under a sustained pressure as well because it's entering its planting planting season now.
Yeah. Yeah. Short shortly after uh we met in Russia in Scorf I went to Moscow
and I had some conversations there with some people including I mean I'm talking about Russian officials who have been
involved in bricks and they tell me exactly what you said about how uh the Russians did an enormous amount of work
in 2024 culminating in the uh meeting in Kazan to set up the payment insistence
and then they became incredibly frustrated the following year when Brazil assumed the presidency and
shifted everything to a discussion on green issues. And the Russians were furious about this. And there was
enormous amount of acrimony and dissension within bricks over it. And the Brazilians apparently pushed back
and told the Russians that they were being rude. And apparently South Africa came out and supported the Brazilians as
did India. Again, all to Russia's intense irritation and anger. And the
conclusion the Russians came away with was that their interlocutors in Brazil and in India as well, but especially in
Brazil, were worried, were personally afraid that if they moved forward with the P payment systems, the United States
would sanction them personally. And that was one of the major breaks that was holding back the entire process. Now I I
I was actually told that by people who were in the room during some of these meetings. So just just to say can can we
move on a little bit because you've also been at this meeting in Vladimov.
That's really interesting because I met Yeah.
Chapter 18: Impressions from the Vladivostok forum
Yeah. I was I met I met Radica I spoke to Radica Desai at the at the conference in Vladivosto and she actually said she
said more or less the same thing that you've just said.
I think yeah well there you go. So you were at Vladivos Vosto. Putin was there.
The Chinese were also there. Putin met with Cining in Bishkek just before. He delivered a a a speech which I have to
say I thought had less to say on geopol geopolitical questions than I imaged.
But um a lot of what goes on in these conferences, e economic conferences actually happens away from the plenaries. Um what was your impression?
Um as you said there was rem in the actual speech itself there was very little um [clears throat] international
uh you know international policy. um in I think in the question and answer session there was really very very
little on Ukraine. Um he did he it wasn't until I realized what happened in Bishkek that I I I started to understand
what he was talking about. But he he made a point of saying that um Russia is
uh you know more than happy to more than happy to negotiate towards an ending of the Ukraine crisis. But it has
to be between Russia and Ukraine. has to be between the two uh the two
belligerent parties which I was kind of surprised at. But then I kind of thought actually it's it's quite a in some ways that's quite a neat get that's quite a
neat get out after after Bishke Kek. Um because of course the Ukrainians won't won't agree to negotiate. Um so if
he just says, "Well, yeah, we can negotiate an end to this, but it has to be a direct negotiation between uh Russia and Ukraine," then um it sort of
it it kicks the ball down the down the road a bit. Um um but yeah, there was very little um in
in the speech itself on uh the international situation, although the
president of Indonesia was there. Um and the president of Indonesia was making um making a lot of statements. He was very
very keen to improve relations and improve trade with with Russia. Um because I think Indonesia's uh new free
trade new new free trade area um uh is, you know, a potential area of
cooperation. Um because people don't realize how close Russia actually, you know, that part of Russia actually is to Southeast Asia. Um and that was a big
focus of the Eastern Economic Forum um relations with with Southeast Asia.
Yeah. Um the thing to say about Indonesia is of course they had very very strong
economic links up to the mid 1960s and then of [clears throat] course it all went it all went away.
the the new president of Indonesia, despite the fact that he historically was associated with the regime that took
over, the pro-American regime that took over in the mid 1960s. He seems to be interested in going back to that that
very strong relationship that the Russians the Russians used to have. Can I ask what's happening with Paris
Siberia too? I mean this is a story that goes on and on and on and now it's power of bal. Um some people had been
expecting that there would be an announcement for it. Um in light of what you are saying about the pressure on
Chapter 19: Power of Siberia 2 and the Mongolia route dispute
China that is coming. One might have expected that the Chinese would be keen to wrap this thing up and instead you
know it seems to be um dragging on a bit. what is the situation there?
So, interestingly, um okay, it is going ahead and it is um [clears throat] you know it is kind of being fasttracked as much as it can be.
Um but what I what I've heard is that the problem at the moment is um the choice of route. So, China is very
concerned about it going through a third country now. Um because I think that um it's not that they it's not that they uh
it's not that they don't trust um Mongolia. It's like they don't trust what might happen to Mongolia in the
near future. Um so what I've heard is that the delay because originally the route was fixed to go through Mongolia
and that was that was what I from what I heard that was pretty certain. Um and then recently when I was at the when I
was at the conference in Vladivosto um I was told that the problem had come uh
primarily from the Chinese side um because they were concerned about the security issues of going through a third country um and that country is Mongolia.
So um they are attempting to work out a a new route that would uh go around
Mongolia and presumably would come in through northeastern China again same as power of Siberia one and it's of course
the names changed by points to a new route which would not
be through Mongolia very very the Mongolians won't be happy this this is a big blow a very very
the Mongolians were set to do that's right. Yeah. Yeah.
Mongolia were positioned to do really really well out of it as well because they'd managed to negotiate um not just transit fees but there was also going to
be a a great deal of investment into Mongolian energy infrastructure. Um and uh Mongolia was also going to get get a
share of some of the the gas that was that was coming through.
M but it is going to move it is going to move ahead and the change of name is a sign priority is a sign of that yes it's a priority
it is it is a it is a priority well um there was one thing and this is my last point the one thing that you said to me uh which has remained with me
ever since I was you know we we we first met which is that every single taxi ask any taxi driver in Beijing about what
the war in Iran is all about and it is ultimately about China. So um everybody
seems in China there seems to be an awful lot of public awareness of what is
Chapter 20: Why Chinese taxi drivers say it's all about China
happening. Um does that strengthen the position of the government in the sense that if there is an economic shock um
people are to some extent already adjusted for it politically adjusted for it or or I mean what what is your sense of that?
Yeah. Um I think that's true. Um I also think it's not I mean it's not something that's happened recently. It's really
what has underpinned much of the political changes in China over the last decade. Um it's um one of the reasons
why the constitution was was altered uh in order to allow Xiinping to stay on past his second term because
they uh the senior levels in the senior levels in the government understood um
that this was coming and that in order to navigate it, they needed a continuity
of leadership and they needed to have a strong um they needed to like reinforce
the ideological backbone of the country um which had very much kind you know there was a it's still there still a
very big sort of liberal leaning pro- US community particularly in sort of like you know in the big coastal cities but
that sort of reorientation back towards um a more kind of uh socialist education
system was very much about preparing precisely for this because they understood that that was the weaknesses that were that were likely to be
exploited. And as I said, you know, you literally if you get in a taxi and a taxi driver, if you if taxi driver
starts talking about the Iran war, then he'll tell you that it's actually all about China. And similarly
almost all the time when they talk about Ukraine war they'll say that it's ultimately about China or or they at least know that it's about regime change
in Russia and then you know by extension um uh by extension motivated by policy towards China.
We live in very interesting times as the Chinese themselves I believe actually do say.
Uh Ryan uh uh thank you very much for coming on this program. I'm sure we're going to have more discussions about
this because this is clearly an evolving situation. Scott Bessent is clearly the man to watch and we will see what he
gets up to. Um, thank you very much. And before you go, can you just uh um um
Alec, Alex, I think we'll have a few more things to say briefly.
Just uh just your address for uh your link for Substack. Yeah.
Oh, yes. Uh so it's Ryan Perkins Geopolitics and uh uh on Twitter, China indicator.
All right, those links in the description
￼
Sync to video time
￼
All
￼
Polit
