Assassination as Ultimate Intervention Policy of the Deep State

Time to abolish secret services – they have illegally taken over the controls and deploy the most ruthless tools to achieve their ‘regime change’ goals

London, 31 July 2024. The “Theory of Bureaucracy” (e.g. Selznick, P. (1948). Foundations of the Theory of Organizations, American Sociological Review, 13) indicates that bureaucracies continuously expand their power and reach, in a way I liken to cancer, and this tendency overrides their official purpose. Other researchers have found evidence that government bureaucracies have incentives to collude with large firms in their respective sectors against the interests of ordinary citizens (as introduction, this and this).

There are many examples. Of course not in Europe, where European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has just proposed to create a new bureaucracy. The Commission President is undaunted by allegations against her and lost legal cases concerning collusion with Pfizer in secret contracts involving billions of European tax payers’ money (such things seem to happen not for the first time; a recent example here; the EU and its Commission have never successfully passed an audit and the official auditors have found an increase in the unlawful “errors” ; in 1999, all Commissars of the Commission resigned en masse due to evidence of impropriety; auditors are said to have died on the job, e.g. here and here; dying on the job also happens to NATO auditors checking procurement spending – conveniently marked as suicide). (The author of this report has never in the remotest contemplated suicide).

Von der Leyen plans to add a new bureaucracy to the promising if not proliferating Brussels administrative jungle of Councils, Commissions, Directorate-Generals, Systems, Boards, Mechanisms and organisations of all kinds – including twenty-four commissioners for various portfolios, such as “Climate Action” (thankfully, eurocrats have the God-given power to regulate the climate via taxes and levies) and one for Equality. The Single Resolution Board in Brussels has the power to close any bank at any time for whatever reason and use depositors’ funds above the ensured minimum to make good other creditors, such as corporate creditors. The European Stability Mechanism has the power to collect tax payer funds from any EU member country at short notice and dispose of them as it wishes. The EU has even been issuing its own securities and credit instruments to raise funds, although Germany remains the largest net contributor to its vast budget.

Evidently, an ever-growing number of bureaucratic bodies can only enrich the process of formulating and implementing thousands of EU Directives and Regulations (the latter now called “Acts of Law”), and hence our very lives: So von der Layen now proposes a new kind of Ministry of Truth that will vet in real time all information disseminated, including by the media and media providers, and ordinary citizens daring to speak their mind on social media. Critics maintain this is in order to stay in charge of “the narrative” and stamp out “wrong” opinions by classifying them as “misinformation” and “disinformation”.

Is Europe’s biggest problem that it doesn’t have enough bureaucratic organisations?

The creation of this new bureaucratic body makes sense, because it is obvious to anyone that Europe’s biggest problem today is that it just doesn’t have enough bureaucratic organs! But no worries, the constantly alert bureaucrats in Brussels have been working on tackling this weakness. Presently called merely a “European disinformation unit”, such a new administrative creature is badly needed – because at the moment the vast geo-landscape of EU institutions concentrates such activities mainly within the already over-worked European Union External Action Services (yes, I have not made this up). After all, the pencils drop in Brussels punctually early on Friday afternoons, if not Thursdays, and overtime can hardly be expected from the overpaid EU staffers – as Europe’s holiday resorts beckon a visit ever earlier in the week.

Moreover, democracy and freedom need to be “managed” appropriately, it would appear. This includes especially the flow of information (see how central banks have been operating information management). Naturally, the new Disinformation Unit will require the creation of related bureaucracies, such as the Joint Response Teams that are already being discussed. After all, the recently imposed European Digital Services Act (the 2065^(th) Regulation of the EU in year 2022) and the European Media Freedom Act (the 1083^(rd) Regulation of the EU in year 2024) are there to ensure the freedom of the press. Clearly, there is much work to do – but the fruits are beginning to be seen: The first major German news magazine – Compact – has just been closed and its editor-in-chief was subjected to a dawn-raid at his home, with mainstream media cameras present and filming his detention in a morning gown; the magazine’s bank accounts, computers and other assets were taken into state custody. This was understandable: The government experts had identified “misinformation and disinformation”.

Some readers might find that they could live with a government bureaucracy, if it delivers the goods. For instance, the famed bureaucracy of Prussia was powerful, yet lean and designed in such a way – namely in a decentralised fashion, see my paper on this –  that it remained accountable to the people, delivered outstanding results and responded flexibly to differing local conditions and requirements. Instead, we observe ever more centralisation of control and decreasing responsiveness to needs and accountability fading entirely.

If one is concerned about the risk of ending up with too many bloated bureaucracies and red tape that empower bureaucrats further (what doubter could have such an idea?), while leaving ordinary people increasingly at their mercy, please remember that unelected EU bureaucrats are only doing all this in order to protect us from “proxies and puppets of authoritarians”, as EU Commission President von der Leyen put it – conveniently defined as foreign authoritarians (noticeably there are no authoritarians in the EU bureaucracies).

This introduction so far has only given a hint of the extent of the official bureaucracy managing the EU. The real topic here, however, is the administration and activities of the Deep State, which is rarely acknowledged in mainstream discourse – but much larger, as well as much more influential.

Despite the excellent management of information and opinions by European leaders, not all heads of government in the EU have played ball: Prime Minister Fico of Slovakia had been calling for peace in Europe and sought ways to end the slaughter of Ukrainians and Russians by peace negotiations. In this context he had expressed views critical of current NATO policies, despite – or because of – his country being a NATO member.

Peace initiatives are not welcome by NATO, the European Commission and high-ranking decision-makers in Europe.

On 15 May 2024, Mr Robert Fico, the Prime Minister of Slovakia was shot five times at close range by an assassin and was seriously injured, requiring hospitalisation. He has only recently been able to report back to work. But Mr Fico was blessed: He took the bullets, but survived and recovered.

Continue reading this post for free, courtesy of Richard A. Werner, D.Phil..
