Financial Controls to Tighten as our “Leader”-Puppets Steer towards World War Three

The first steps towards capital controls indicate that the EU is serious about wartime mobilisation and the digital Gulag.

Den Haag. 4 September 2026. In the last two weeks a growing number of observers became aware that the European Union is going to make it harder for citizens of its member states to move their money abroad – as we had warned in earlier reports such as here and here. Meanwhile, the German government as well as the European Union regime re-affirmed their intention to take control of people’s bank deposits: on 27 August 2026, Ursula von der Leyen stated in a speech at a convention of entrepreneurs in Paris (Rencontre des Entrepreneurs de France) that “Europe has savings. Unfortunately those savings are lazy. EUR 10 trillion of household savings are today kept in bank accounts.”

Von der Leyen said that she wants to take control of some of these savings and put them to “better” use. She also mentioned that these savings should not be invested abroad. The E300 billion in capital outflows to the US would henceforth be invested in Europe, von der Leyen suggested.

Either von der Leyen is ignorant of how the financial system works – of course bank deposits are never sitting idle, since they are claims on banks that were originally invented by banks when they extended loans, which in turn have been injected into the economy as credit, and which have actually increased the circulating money supply on a net basis. You can even argue that putting your money in the bank is a Christian duty, based on the parable of the servants and the talents, to at least earn some interest (although it does not apply to current accounts in many countries).

Alternatively, von der Leyen is well aware of how the system works, but is using rhetoric to once again blame banks for the dramatically deteriorating economic situation in the eurozone. Yet, the dire economic situation is only due to two institutions: the EU Commission and its excessive penchant for over-regulation, producing thousands of new pages of restrictive legislation a year that crush businesses, including banks – and which Commission is headed by none other than von der Leyen. And secondly the one bank that bears responsibility for the overall economy, can manipulate economic growth and which has control over the banking system, the European Central Bank – another unaccountable and supranational European institution that is above the law and that cannot be influenced by any European government or the decisions of any democratic assembly in Europe.

Either way, this does not augur well for the economies in Europe.

Meanwhile, the European Commission circulated an official English translation of von der Leyen’s speech, using the less inflammatory expression “those savings are sitting idle”. Yet, the French original wording was

« Mais l’Europe a de l’épargne. Malheureusement, cette épargne est paresseuse. 10 mille milliards d’euros d’épargne des ménages restent aujourd’hui sur des dépôts bancaires. »

And when I enter the English words “But Europe has savings. Unfortunately those savings are lazy” into the translation engine Deepl.com, it does use the French word “paresseuse” to translate “lazy”.

The first step towards capital controls from January 2027

Around the same time, many commentators had noticed that, while not much covered by the mainstream media, Germany had quietly adopted the latest stack of new EU laws on bank regulation, named CRD 6 (capital requirements directive number VI), which further expand the already massive regime of capital requirement-based bank regulations, as documented in CRD 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 – all of which have failed to deliver their declared goal of stable growth without crises and without inflation. (That’s because the central planners in fact have the goal to create cycles and crises, as I had warned a quarter century ago in my speeches on “Central Bank Risk”).

Continue reading this post for free, courtesy of Richard A. Werner, D.Phil..
