Asset Confiscation: How the State is Preparing to Take Your Money

The EU Commission & the German gov’t are preparing measures to confiscate people's assets – measures associated with communism. The EU is the Deep State experimental ground, to be rolled out elsewhere

On 18 March 2025, the chief commissar of the unelected European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, announced two plans, both of which are highly concerning, and which are closely connected: Firstly, the “ReArm Europe” plan, which ushers in a “new era”, namely the “era of rearmament” for Europe, which states that “Europe” will “massively boost its defence spending”. The goal is to “mobilise close to EUR 800 billion” in order to “unleash the use of public funding in defence at national level”. This unprecedented increase in military armament spending is desired by the other Brussels-based bureaucracy more directly controlled by the USA: NATO.

For this, von der Leyen announced a new EUR 150 billion loan program for member states to borrow from the European Investment Bank, and secondly, and more concerning, she suggested an EU assault on the savings of European citizens. This raid on people’s nest egg is called the “Savings and Investment Union”, in line with the unimaginative Brussels Speak we have had to get used to. Very few details were given on how so much money was supposed to be spent, except that von der Leyen said with such increased military spending “Member States can massively step up their support to Ukraine”. Even less detail was given on the question of just how this “mobilisation” of people’s money was supposed to take place, fuelling speculation and fears of the worst possible scenarios.

Editorial note: Even though the “ReArm” name was found to be unpopular to the surprise of its creators, so that this European Commission-ordered rearmament programme of Europe has apparently since been re-labelled to the less militaristic sounding and less blood-dripping “Readiness 2030”, to avoid confusion we shall continue to use its original name here.

That Savings and Investment Union is the second plan announced in its own right on the same day. It is yet another centralisation plan, concocted by the vast European Commission bureaucracy that has, unusually for democratic countries, both executive and legislative powers (the European parliament is a rubber-stamp parliament that has no power to propose any laws).

It is difficult to say which of the two plans is more concerning. Von der Leyen said that for the Commission’s re-armament program of Europe, the people’s "unused savings" will be utilised, and she was referring mainly to people’s deposits in bank accounts. The biggest amount of such savings held in the bank is found in Germany, as its population has a preference for highly liquid savings, and has fewer investments in stocks, bonds or real estate per household than in several other countries in Europe.

In a tweet on X, Ursula von der Leyen stated:

"We'll turn private savings into much needed investment." News Pravda

“to better channel up to €10 trillion in bank deposits across the bloc into much-needed strategic investments.

Since von der Leyen gives no details, let’s consider what the EU Commissioner for Financial Services, Maria Luis Albuquerque says about this:

Continue reading this post for free, courtesy of Richard A. Werner, D.Phil..
