Chapter 1: The Promise of Peace and Prosperity
The local economy can be very easily supported if you just stop these wars.
And of course, that's precisely why President Trump was so popular and people voted for him because that's what he promised. And it was a sensible, justifiable promise.
Sadly, well, somehow it hasn't quite happened. But if we could go back to that, there would be hope.
[music]
Welcome everyone. In this podcast series, as you know, we are exploring the current trajectory of the United States by asking the question, is it too
late? Meaning, is there a path we could still choose that would guide us back toward being a world a system of fair
governance, fair systems of justice, fair economic opportunity for everyone?
And we are exploring this from all angles, legal, political, cultural, and today from the economic perspective.
Joining us today is Richard Warner. He is the London School of Economics and Oxford trained economist who coined the term quantitative easing, empirically
demonstrated that banks create money when they lend, and wrote the Japanese number one bestseller, Princes of the Yen. He's a professor of banking and
economics, a former chief economist and fund manager and adviser to governments and central banks. He has twice appeared on the Tucker Carlson show, which is
where I first encountered him, to explain how credit creation, central banks, and economics actually work.
Richard, I am so glad you've agreed to do this. Welcome to the show.
It's a pleasure. I'm glad to be with you. Thanks for having me.
So, I'm going to just jump right in the deep end of the pool. Richard, the US government is now 40 trillion in debt and um here's a little chart of that debt. Oh, I I made this debt in 2022.
Chapter 2: Is America's $40 Trillion Debt Sustainable?
Let me update it very quickly for everybody. There we go. Uh we've packed on 20 trillion of that debt since June of 2020. Um is this sustainable?
Right. Well, you can see the uh the trajectory and even if one uses different scales um and even a log scale which would be cheating because reality
is not log but um you do see this is an exponential graph and unfortunately we
are at the very steep end of the exponential curve where it's almost going vertical.
So yeah, you can play a little bit in terms of how you show this, but we are on that uh close to vertical end. Now
the time and you can you everyone can see this by just checking how long does it take for another trillion to be
added. It's not long ago, just a few years ago where it took essentially a
decade to add a trillion. Then it took several years to add a trillion.
then you know coming closer to now several months to add a trillion soon it will be just a matter of weeks and then
very soon and much quicker it will be just days until we add another trillion that's the situation and so yes a
pertinent question is this sustainable and everyone knows the answer of course not it's not sustainable
um and and so then there is a list of things you uh what can one do? What um should
happen? What is likely to happen? And they're all slightly different because uh unfortunately, you know, in in the
checklist of what one should do in this situation, you know, you can have all sorts of theoretical scenarios and and nice nice
lists of what you should [clears throat] do. Most of those are not going to happen.
Um so talking realistically what is happening um certainly the number one way to
tackle this to reduce spending we don't see any sign that this is being even considered in any serious and substantial way.
Now there is a a secondary way to tackle this indirectly but if well done could it could also be quite effective and
Chapter 3: The Economic Importance of Small Banks
that is because of course these are the absolute numbers ultimately it's you know it's a relative thing because these
numbers have to be seen relative to the ability of an economy to service and
repay the debt. the repaying I think we all agree well it's a matter for um such
a far distant in the future that it is quite abstract and theoretical but certainly the servicing has to be insured and also the cost of the
servicing uh can't take up the entire budget um of course that cost of the servicing has
already ballooned just in the last year I wrote a few substacks on this on the debt explosion already last year My Substack is rwer.substackag.com.
Um, and already there I explained, you know, the the key issues and and you know, essentially, you know, it's it's
still completely up to date. Sadly, the numbers have become bigger as I warned was going to happen. And so the the
payments now are so enormous to service this that they're beginning to eat up all other items in the budget. They're
already larger than all military. And as far as we can tell, deep state expenses that are visible above the line. Um,
which is quite something because they're by far the biggest of any country in the whole world. And if you combine the rest of the world, we still don't get close
to this. Um, it's already larger than that and soon it'll be larger than social security, the other, you know, top item. So, it's clear it's going to
be number one item. And then the question is how dominant can it become as part of your budget? So, that's also not sustainable. But having said all
that, it's relative to the ability to service this. So what is that ability?
That is the economy. That's economic growth. And of course that's why the economic situation is directly relevant.
Uh because even when you have excessive debt, um if you have a strong economy and you manage to increase
economic growth, then with unchanged spending, you can reduce the debt burden. Um it's possible. and also you
can make sure that it remains somewhat sustainable. But what is the situation there? Well, American economic
growth has been reasonably strong and I would say that it's it's not weakening,
but when you look into um into the components, then it's not a very healthy um type of setup
because um one very fundamental important strength of the US economy has been its banking system. And when I say banking system, most people think of the
big banks. No, they've been sort of the Achilles heel um or even the you know the the sort of the factor that could
come back to haunt us. I'm talking about the majority of banks which is small banks, local banks, community banks.
America has almost 5,000 of those.
And the the overall strength of the US economy in the last 200 years has been due to of course hardworking people,
entrepreneurship um and and what it takes there. But always directly connect to this is the
ability to obtain funding. Small firms employ you know 70% of of people. They get all the external funding from banks.
Big banks don't lend to small firms. So we are talking about small banks. If a country has a lot of small banks, it will have a a strong um small firm
sector and a strong middle class and actually a strong economy because that's where productivity is decided. It's not
the big companies. Productivity is um actually defined as how much output is produced by those who actually
working and the majority of people work for small firms. And in countries where productivity has been low like the UK for the past century, it's because the
banking system is so concentrated. Small number of very big banks dominate 80 90% of banking. They don't give loans to
small firms. The small firm sector has been underfunded. They can't implement the latest technologies. They don't have the money. They fall behind. They lose
market share. Job creation has been abysmal. Economic growth gets weaker and weaker. That's the situation with the concentrated bank system. Now America
has had a lot of strength here but in the last well actually in the last um 30 years
but really getting worse and worse in the last 10 years the number of banks has been falling and if you go down to the state level in all the states except
perhaps North Dakota uh for good reasons they have a state bank the only state with safe but otherwise the number of
banks has been collapsing falling dropping off regulators closing banks The um Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation likes to close down healthy banks. They have a record and they have data series closing down healthy banks which surprise surprise economists show
of course hurts the economy. Um and so as the number of banks falls [snorts]
the the small firm sector and the middle class suffer and you know mainstream suffers and that's of course has been
going on. the overall economy has still sort of been kept up with the the large firm sector and what's happening there
and the you know the financial the big you know Wall Street financial sector doing well but that's not very
sustainable because you know that's not really where the majority of jobs are.
So we see scary signs that after 200 years of amazing economic strength um
somebody has been targeting that central pillar of US strength that is to have thousands and thousands of banks there
used to be 30,000 banks in America mostly small local banks and frankly you can't have too many banks if it's small
firms small banks lending to small firms and that's what they used to do but they've been shut down and closed down the federalism have killed 10,000 100
years ago and in the last 30 years another 10,000 have disappeared and they're dropping in huge numbers as we
speak. Um the politicians haven't really done anything about this. We need to create new banks. One needs to facilitate the whole process of setting
up new banks. At one stage in the US it was super easy and thousands of new banks were created and and economic
growth was very high. If we had high growth, the debt issue would become a secondary issue. So that's I think I
want I want people to realize that yes, the debt is a massive problem. There are ways to handle this, but nothing is
actually done about this. And so that leaves us with well, what's going to happen then? Um, of course, there are
other measures that are being taken to manage this, but there's stop gap measures. So we've seen a lot of
Chapter 4: Stablecoins and the Future of Dollar Debt
cajoling of foreign investors to well not reduce their holdings of treasuries for one because of course they want to
reduce them and Japan the number one foreign uh holder of US treasuries has been reducing them. So we've seen
intervention there aimed at um you know um solving that problem and and getting Japan not to sell treasuries.
uh but ideally you would need to recruit constantly other foreign investors and and so this explains this whole initiative we've seen last year about
stable coins. It is about supporting the treasury market at a very high price again for for ordinary people to pay.
Why? Because so you know just to explain briefly the setup. So stable coins are uh essentially cryptocurrencies that
that operate in many ways outside the traditional financial sector. uh but have an aspect of transparency because
it's on the blockchain everyone can uh check transactions. Now unlike the cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin that are quite volatile as the name says stable
coins are designed to be stable by fixing them to a currency obviously
we're talking about stable coins fixing um their exchange rate to the US dollar.
Now um in many countries governments and regulators have not encouraged this but the Trump administration has now said no we we want to really encourage this.
Why? Well, there is something in it for for the policy makers because um
essentially um in order to maintain that exchange rate um the stable coin providers
um will be buying US treasuries and there's been you know there's different business models but
essentially the the business model has one where the stable coin issuers can keep most of the of the coupons the yield on because you know the interest
on the national debt that they're acquiring um in exchange the government will facilitate this encourage this and what
does the government get? Well, there will be new money going into crypto into these tokens and um as long as there
stable coins uh in the dollar, it will go into the treasury market into treasury debt and again provide
therefore a new and growing source of purchases of US treasuries. You see the
extent to which they've gone to um to find buyers for treasuries. And why did they say that uh you know there's a
price to pay? Well, because this is really, you know, there are plans out there. We know this from other countries. Central banks want to
introduce a totalitarian control system called central bank digital control,
CBDC. Oh, they mean they they like to say central bank digital currency, but it's central bank digital control. And
they didn't get very far in the US because people are not going to have that. So stable coins are a backdoor way
to set the system uh on the path towards the introduction of something that okay then they won't call it CBDC but in many
ways will have the same features um namely a lot of control and uh at some stage you know the ability of the
regulator usually the central bank um to intervene and decide who's allowed to buy what when and where um which is the
main point of central bank digital currencies. So that's where we are. Now there's other considerations the whole geopolitical considerations
um that we need to talk about um because of course you know we are essentially in a state of war. uh there's been an
ongoing and growing war against Russia and um the US essentially has started a war uh at the end of February against
Iran um which has impacted the whole um u both have impacted the whole energy
supply issue um not just in general um specifically for countries dependent on
energy from these sources in the Middle East and Russia so Europe uh Asia and so then we're talking
geopolitics because even China is involved and u and so you see there's a lot of variables here uh but it is a
highly highly um concerning development that nothing is done to even slow this
acceleration of debt um in this very explosive uh difficult environment
we're entering [music] During an era of massive disruptions, hitting on so many fronts that it is rightly being called a poly [music] crisis. We're in the midst
of the largest energy shock in world history. AI is going to displace [music] millions of formerly high-paid knowledge workers. Debts have never been higher
and the [music] financial system is emitting creaking and popping sounds.
Hello, [music] Dr. Chris Martinson here, the founder and owner of Peak Prosperity. My top skills [music] are my abilities to analyze, stay on top of
fast-breaking situations, and communicate [music] my findings to you clearly and always with an eye towards specific actions you can and should be
undertaking to [music] make yourself, your family, and your community more resilient. Now, most people [music] are still sleepwalking through these times,
and they are almost certain to be burned by their inattention and inaction. Those who [music] bravely face the future and
prepare will sleep better, eat better, and be in a position to thrive rather than merely survive. By subscribing [music] to Peak Prosperity, you will be
joining a thriving community of thousands who are facing the future with clarity, purpose, [music] and action. I will help you become prepared and
resilient now while you still can. Don't hesitate. The clock is ticking [music] down.
I I want to get to this because to me this is this is the crux of the whole issue right here is that um this is a chart and we have GDP on the bottom in
Chapter 5: The Debt Trap and the Inflation Escape Route
red and we have what's called all sectors debt. It's TCMDO in Fed speak but it's everything. It's federal debt, state debt, corporate, local, household.
Um so I consider currency to be a claim on current stuff but debt is a claim on future currency. So there ought to be
some relationship, Richard, I'm thinking, between the stuff that's the GDP and the claims we're piling up.
There should be, but these two have been growing apart from each other in in exponential terms. The top line is compounding at about twice the rate of
the bottom line. I don't understand how how economists look at this or or you know, policy makers look at this and say, "Here's how this resolves. It it
only resolves in one of two ways. one, you have to start reducing your debts relative to the stuff or you really got to get the stuff growing like crazy. Um,
those are your kind of your your macro options here. And the only time we saw the claims go backwards once in the
entire series was 2008 through 2009, first quarter 2010. And in those six quarters of just very minor nominal
shrinkage of debt, almost collapsed the system if if Hank Pollson and and Mvin King are to be believed. So, it looks to
me like we've got ourselves caught in a system where we need just more and more and more debt or or something. Is anybody looking at this for like do I
have this wrong? Is is there a way this have I mischaracterized this? And and but if not, how does this resolve?
Well, I think it is it is quite a realistic uh way of looking at it. Um there are a few more options to resolve
it in inverted commas because you didn't name those options because as a freedom loving um American who is used to a
democratic system you didn't even think about them but unfortunately we're dealing with central planners that have
a very different outlook and so the first option they will be thinking of and you know we're back to the topic of central bank digital currencies is well
how can we prevent people from making use of their claims.
So the claim continues to exist. It's there on paper legally. Look, you can see it. But practically, in reality, you
won't be able to um make those claims effective. And there's a number of things and well the simplest and of
course in history the most common one is inflation.
uh because if you let inflation happen, it will in real terms reduce the debt
and it ensures effectively that people are not getting very much for those claims. Um of course a lot of people
have caught on to this and this is very carefully watched. Um and but they have they have launched their first bout of inflation quite gratuitously if I may
add because if you think about this it's quite extraordinary how we got this inflation from late 21 and 22 the cause
has not been and it's quite emphatic has not been energy prices as you can check I mean it just doesn't align the timing of energy
price rises or movements and it has not been supply shocks due to the you know
2020 22 escalation of the situation between Ukraine and Russia. No, it has not been that because what actually has
caused this um is entirely central planners money creation.
Um and you can tell this if you go back to my feed on on X on Twitter X.com. Um,
one of my accounts, key account is scientific econ because I like to um,
you know, people ask me what's what's your approach and I like to take a scientific approach to economics because the textbook approach is actually
theoretical and unscientific. I'm empirically based anyway. So, scientific econ, if you look it up, what I said in from May 2020 onwards.
Uh, also my other account, Professor Wernner, that's the second one. Um, you know, I've been warning uh again and
again about how we're likely to get doubledigit significant inflation 18 months down the road. And I've been
saying this from May June um 2020 onwards. When I had the data on Fed
activity in March 2020, it just went through the roof. The Federal Reserve
implemented a very rare and unique and therefore misunderstood policy.
It's a form of quantitative easing, but the different types. You know, when I originally proposed quantitative
easing in Japan in 1995, the situation was very different. You know, there was a country that had an asset bubble in the 80s. Banks bust. Um,
therefore, credit crunch. But in '94, '95, most people didn't understand what was going on. You know, oh, Japan is cheap. Interest rates are low. Uh, buy
Japanese stocks. And I was saying, no, no, no. Japanese banks are going bust.
Huge non-performing loans. There's a credit crunch. The economy is going to go from bad to worse. There's going to be a massive recession. And so, which,
you know, gradually over the years, people realize that's what's happening.
And it took 20 years this recession because the policy makers, the central bank really wanted this to happen which is another story that's in princes of
the yen at quantumpublishers.com by the way. That's where you can get the book. But um so then I proposed in 1995
this policy you can get out of this you can snap out of it in one go without any cost to the taxpayer without any cost to
society because it's just an accounting problem.
The banking system is essentially applied accounting and their accounts are their business model, right? They're moving about things in their accounts,
expanding and contracting their accounts. And there's an accounting issue, non-performing assets in the banking system, which is serious because
when that happens, banks won't give out new loans. When a bank lends, it creates money. So, it directly affects the whole economy and therefore everyone. When
banks lend, there's three scenarios. When banks lend for productive business investment, you get growth, jobs, prosperity, and no inflation. That's the ideal scenario.
Chapter 6: How Banks Create Money and Fuel Bubbles
Sadly, since the 1970s, central planners across the globe, they more or less had an agreement, and they said, "Okay, we we don't really want
growth anymore." You know, this was published in [clears throat] this Club of Rome report. You know, that's a Rockefeller sort of think tank type of
um report saying growth is bad. We need zero growth. Uh and by the way population people are bad too we need to reduce the population. So a lot of the
policies ever since you have to understand happen through this you know this lens this this aim that's the goal.
Some people are puzzle what are they doing what's the goal? Well just read up you know they told us then these are the goals no more growth and they want to
reduce populations everywhere. Okay. So um they therefore the central planners through various policy mechanisms like
the Basel bank regulations and other rules and and changes and tax changes
gradually made sure that banks would lend less and less for productive business investment. There's two more possibilities.
Bank credit and therefore money creation for consumption leads to inflation. That is easily understood in standard economics. That's the only scenario they
think exists. But of course there's two other scenarios. So one is bank credit for productive investment leads to growth and not inflation. And the third
scenario is bank credit for asset purchases leads to asset price rises.
Asset bubbles if it's big enough and long enough and then always in that case to banking crisis and if central
planners then don't step in to long recessions.
That's the that's the that's the situation. And so what was happening in Japan was that the central bank had forced the banks in the 80s to massively
expand real estate lending creating the asset bubble of the 80s. Then they tightened credit and sat back and watched and did not step in to to help.
And so then you have this ongoing credit crunch, banks reducing credit, credit growth negative, the economy shrinking, bad debts can only get worse. Oh, then
banks have more problems. They reduce lending further. you know, and this can go on for decades. And it did because the central banks were saying, "Oh, we
don't see anything here." You know, we don't see, we don't hear, we don't say.
Um, like the three monkeys. And so, um, they let this happen because that was the intention. But, so I proposed a way
to get out very quickly. Number one, the central bank purchases non-performing assets from banks at face value. Then
you shift the non-performing assets from the banks to the central bank balance sheet. the banks have flushed with reserves, strong balance sheets and they
can lend again. Um that's quantitative easing one type one. Bernani by the way he listened to my uh advice and he did
this in 2008 is the Fed was the only central bank to do this which is why the big banks were um reasonably strong very
quickly faster than other countries faster than Europe even though the crisis started in America.
Um, but I had a second version of QE because I thought even if you did that, the loan officer would still not lend
because they're so shell shocked and you know, credit is always supply rationed.
But when the loan officers just, you know, they want to be super conservative, you'll get less and less credit. It's not going to help. So I
proposed a way for the central bank to force banks to expand credit. Now that is unusual and it's basically designed for this situation where we have a
shrinking economy, deflation, a downward you know debt deflation spiral um which leads to bankruptcies and you
know it's just and was going on for many years. So as I warned it would so here's the way to get out in this situation. I
mean you don't want to do this in other situations but in this situation the central bank then forces banks to expand credit and that is the central bank
purchases performing assets from non-banks. Now when a central bank buys something from non-banks um the non-banker who's selling there's like a
company um commercial paper being bought by the central bank normally directly central bank don't do this but they can do it and if they do it how does this
seller of commercial paper get paid through their bank account so the the bank then receives instructions from the central bank to credit that person's
bank account with a new deposit and on the other side of the balance sheet of the bank the assets site, there's now an
entry in increased bank reserves at the central bank. And this is how because these deposits are newly created. That's
how you expand the money supply. Um, which is a drastic measure, but of course in deflation, you know, you shouldn't have let it happen in the
first place, but if you did, okay, then you need a drastic measure. So that was my QE2 recommendation. And so what happened with this inflation of 21 and
22 is in March 2020 the Federal Reserve adopted my QE2 proposal
which is quite nuts because there was no need to create inflation.
Now how do we know that this is exactly what they did? Well because Black Rockck used my work and proposed this in August [clears throat] 2019.
They called it the Black Rockck plan. thanks. Um to uh go direct by having you
know the central bank force banks to expand the money supply and they're not so explicit about the details how this works as the way I explained it. So but
once you know this and you read it you see that's what it is. Elab was on there. She she's read my work. I've met
her um you know u years ago we discussed exactly these topics anyway. And so, how do we know the Fed adopted this Black
Rockck plan? Well, because in March 2020, they hired Black Rockck to do just that because to buy assets from the
non-bank uh private sector, that means you're talking about a lot of companies, medium-sized companies, the Fed doesn't
want to deal with that. The Black Rockck plan, okay, you guys, we hire you. You do it. And that's what happened. Look up the Fed website. March 2020, Black
Rockck hired to acquire commercial paper from non-banks for the on behalf of the Fed in the name of the Fed and that's
what happened. So we see a massive massive expansion in um bank credit creation creating these deposits as the
Fed buys this and of course also in in Fed assets uh quantitative easing. Now, most commentators were totally confused
by this. When when Bananka did my QE1 in 2008, they saw this. Oh, the Fed is just
aggressively expanding. What's happening? That's got to be inflationary. No, that was QE1, the Fed buying non-performing assets from banks
to help the banks. That doesn't create money. Why? Money creation is when the banking system creates money through
lending for example and injects it into the non-bank sector including the government. But that wasn't happening.
What was happening was just an accounting exercise, cleanup exercises inside the banking system. The the central bank is part of the banking system. So the central bank and the
banks did some transactions and that's it. End of story. That can't create money. Even if you wanted to, it couldn't. So people were surprised. Wow.
This massive QE 2008 and no inflation.
Yeah. because it's QE1 and the dollar stays strong. But what they did in March 20 is very different. That's QE2. That's a whole separate story. That's massively
inflationary. I designed this for deflation where you do need to have less deflation. So you need to be inflationary. Okay. But they did it when
bank credit growth was 5% already beforehand. The economy was strong.
There's plenty of demand. Demand was unchanged. in March 2020, they started to restrict supply, started to take out small firms through uh ridiculous unjustified restrictions.
And so what you get, of course, is inflation. And they made sure that this massive money creation was eventually more or less channeled into consumption.
So consumer price inflation. So I wrote in, you know, May, June 2020, we're likely to see significant
inflation 18 months ahead. It takes 18 months for this to work through the system and that's exactly what we got.
So that inflation was created and and that's why I said earlier gratuitously unnecessarily by the central banks. Now
if they can do this as part of some weird, you know, oh there's a terrible virus, we're all going to be dead, which
we weren't, you know, um um type of operation.
They can do this for this SCOP, which is bad enough. [clears throat] Do you think they can do this for um 40 trillion in debt and and for that much bigger
problem? I bet they can. So we have to unfortunately also expect inflation will be used. But there's a second way in
which you can take away the purchasing power of the people and therefore again you know the gap you've been addressing between the two different lines the
claims on on stuff and the stuff. So the the claims have gone out of hand. Well, not due to our fault. They've been issued and created by the government.
Of course, the central planner's um other very favorite and perhaps even preferred solution is
well, sorry, you wanted to buy something. I'm sorry, there's a problem with your your spending uh with your you know, with your currency. Um and then
you come up with a list of okay, what's the justification now why you can't buy it? Oh, it's oh, you bought too much beef this week. Oh, your your carbon
footprint. Oh, you've been traveling a bit too much. Oh, we've noticed. So, of course, this is what they're literally gearing up to. You need a bit of
infrastructure. In Europe, sadly, in the European Union, they're really working hard to step that up dramatically and then have this valve, you know, close
the tap on your money. Um, depending and very micromanaged what you buy, where you are, and and and what what precisely
it is, what topping your pizza has. you know, there's too much meat on there, there too much cheese on there. Who knows? It can be any excuse. It doesn't really matter, but they're clearly
working on a whole lot of excuses. In other words, central bank digital currencies and and again, that links to what I said earlier, stable coins are an
alternative path to reach ultimately that same goal. So, the uh one way or another prevent people from making um effective their claim on this stuff.
Chapter 7: The Threat of Central Bank Digital Control
Yeah. So they they they clearly want this control these control currencies, right? They've they've got it. Normally,
if I have a if I have a euro or a dollar bill, you and I, that's a two-party transaction. They want to make it into a three-party transaction, right? They want to Exactly.
They want to have That's a good way of putting it. They want to be part of the central planners want to be involved in everything and they want to have a say.
Yes. And um my darkhorse candidate, which isn't darkhorse anymore, is an energy emergency. It wasn't the climate, wasn't the cows, per se, but I'm so
sorry, Richard. Uh, you can only have uh 10 lers of gasoline per week and you're going to have to get your digital access
code on your phone and oh, we only accept payment in this new digital currency. So, absolutely. I think you're right. I
think that is actually in the short term that's the the likeliest to happen first among the the whole set of other things
they will pull out on in the similar vein. I agree because unfortunately due to this geopolitical situation that's
where we're heading and they've done quite well in uh in hiding this because everyone's been drawing down their reserves you
know their oil reserves I mean the US oil reserves are down to you know record low levels um China has actively since
March uh reduced its demand of oil from international markets because again it had the It's interesting how the US
government, the Chinese government seem to have the same goal. Okay, let's keep this quiet. What's happening in the in the energy markets? Let's now take out
all the demand or supply, you know, increase the supply or take out the demand. So, and and other countries have been drawing down their reserves as
well. So, we haven't actually seen the consequences. It's been pasted over and and covered up. But I think we're
heading into this this situation where we will finally begin to see the consequences.
Well, I I think they're messing about this time at the root of something that I'm not sure they understand and and it's rooted in this chart. So, I'm a
Chapter 8: Energy, Economic Growth, and the Limits of Resources
resources guy. I love energy in particular. [clears throat] So, here we have energy use per person versus GDP per capita. So, we've got apples to
apples and we see this is um Richard, this is probably this is the tightest chart I have in all of economics. It's a line. Little bit of dispersion around
the line. But we notice two things immediately. There is no such thing as a low energy rich country or a high
energyconsuming poor country. It just doesn't exist. So very tight relationship. If you want to have a good
economy, you're going to be burning more energy, which makes sense intuitively, right? You know what's a functioning economy? Well, we see more planes taking off and trucks on the road and
activities happening. But the way I look at this is all economic activity all of it goods and services requires
activities to be done and activities means work is performed and work is only performed if you have energy available to perform the work. So transitively I
say okay the energy is really economies really dependent on energy. Now this next chart you can we can debate it.
Jean Laher is sort of this grandfather geo ge oil geologist and he says look somewhere between this is United States
energy production from oil and gas from here to 2100 they're finite resources guess what all finite resources kind of
go up and then you kind of deplete them and that's that. Now, we can debate whether there's more area under the curve or where the peak actually times out, but this is kind of the situation
we're in. And so, where I fall into trouble is I think about everinccreasing amounts of debt against well, who's
taking who's taking stock of our energy situation. Now, China totally is, right?
They're on it, right? They got alternative energy, but only up to 12% because they don't want it to saturate because it's an unstable source. hydro,
nuclear, they're trying thorium reactors, and they have a five-year energy policy that makes sense. They're like, "Hey, this stuff's super important, and we're approaching it
scientifically and and technocratically." I'm like, "Okay, I don't see that in Europe or the US at this point." But they still want I don't
get it. It's like it's like this is such an obvious missing piece of the puzzle and I never hear it brought up in any of
our so-called economic treatises, but it seems completely obvious to me if if energy is the lifeblood of your economy and you have a finite resource, you
should probably have a plan for how you navigate this. And I think there are plans, but we're none are available
right now. If if we were on the right path, we'd be seeing small modular nukes pop up, you know, in every neighborhood, you know, starting yesterday. I don't see it.
You mean small modular nuclear power plants? Yeah.
Okay. That which would be better than small um nukes as in, you know, suitcase. We wouldn't want those everywhere.
Well, we only want those in the hands of the government sadly in Europe anyway or in in the Middle East. So, no, you're right. You're right. So um clearly one needs energy.
Um there could be I mean that there are ways and and of course the the the direction they've been going in Europe
is is not viable. They've said that oh we want the so-called renewable ones solar and and and wind energy but it's
become clear that that's a dead end. Um it's just not sufficiently reliable at the right time. Um and therefore you
need other solutions. Now there is an open question concerning this issue of how how sort of uh finite are those
resources in oil. Of course the mainstream um theory is that it's a finite resource. It's a fossil fuel
coming from fossils. But already decades ago, Russian scientists have published and therefore you know in peer-reviewed
journals um the proposition that it's actually not from sort of uh you know
dinosaur bones or whatever. uh so not really fossilbased but actually comes from a somewhat
complex chemical process that happens in earth and continues to be created which is an interesting hypothesis and
obviously one should at least look into it I think and and more researchers in the west have started to do that and um
and then you notice that actually the the oil companies particularly you know standard oil and the subsequent you know
oil companies uh sort from the the Rockefeller family of oil companies.
They clearly had a policy that we we don't want to talk about this. It's a finite resource because, you know, it's like it's like the bears and diamonds.
You know, it has to it has to be very scarce and rare. Then we can push up the price. But, uh, it turns out diamonds
can be created. Excellent diamonds are being created more and more. um you might uh certainly collapse the the
cartel of the suppliers. Um and uh so there is a question whether actually there could be more supply if one takes
the right attitude and does the right research and and uh the right exploration. So I wouldn't entirely um
count that out. That could still be a dark horse of uh of what could be done.
You know, perhaps we're not beyond, you know, peak oil. Um perhaps there is plenty because it's being renewed. Um a
Chapter 9: The Petrodollar, War, and Dollar Dominance
consequence would be that we don't have to be so negative on using oil and what what are called currently still the fossil fuels. But then of course there's
also alternatives and there's other forms of energy one has to clearly spend more time and research on um and that will be much better spent money than on
Middle Eastern wars trying to maintain the the petro dollar cartel. So just on that front on the petro dollar briefly
um and it by now it's it's it's common knowledge how this system has been operating uh when uh again you know starting 71
really that was sort of a important turning point um because um the essentially the US government um
defaulted on its international obligations namely the obligations in the bread and wood system to always exchange the US dollar into gold. That
was the agreement and the US said, you know, uh, President Nixon was really asked by the Fed and the Treasury to make this announcement. Um, the
temporary suspension of the convertability of the dollar into gold.
It hasn't been that temporary, still lasting until now, um, more than half a century later. So
um since then there was the need for another anchor of the dollar because the dollar is important for US international
hedgeimony paying for all those you know overseas military uh bases and adventures
and uh it was found in oil but essentially you know the what what Kissinger and and his colleagues did was
okay so we're not exporting enough Japan Germany doesn't really want that much of our stuff. Fine. What do they need? Oh,
they need oil. Well, we'll we'll sell them oil. So, Saudi Arabia was essentially incorporated into the US by
this bilateral agreement. And in practice, what this meant was that 350 top, you know, relevant energy um and
otherwise governance bureaucrats descended on Saudi Arabia and took all the top positions in the government
and took over the running of the Saudi economy. And of course, Saudi Arabia signed this agreement uh that uh oil
will only be sold against the US dollar and the revenue, the resulting uh dollar revenue would be invested to 80% in US treasuries.
And hey, of course, you know, Saudi Arabia can live off the the coupons it receives on the treasuries. Isn't that nice? um and therefore recycling all the
money back to the US and the US with this could address two problems at the same time. The uh budget deficit, the
funding treasury, you know, in the debt market, buyers for your treasuries.
Saudi Arabia was for a long time the number one buyer. They just hid it in the data by not publishing until
sort of 20 years ago by country. Who is the top buyer? This was oh it was the region, Middle East. it was the Middle East when it was clearly Saudi Arabia.
Um so they funded national debt budget.
Um but secondly this problem of uh international balance of payments that America had for having a huge um you
know a balance of trade deficit. You also need foreign money coming in and it also served the function of plugging that hole. So it worked quite well but
America needed to keep a grip on um oil suppliers and that meant ever expanding activities in the Middle East um Iraq
um Syria, Libya that you know are very unfortunate and not really happy stories
uh and they don't look that good uh from the viewpoint of of you know other countries. Um and so America has been driven into this. But of course there's
other you know other considerations that played into this you know the role of Israel and its um intentions and and
goals and objectives and so more and more as a result more and more resources have been drained from America to sustain that system
which really a symptoto um but you know just dealing with the symptoms has taken up more and more resources and all these wars and of
course the this ongoing war against Iran is closely connected to this. I mean, it's just another case really of the
attempt to to ensure that the petro dollar can survive. But while this has been happening, as part of the measures on the way and you know, we haven't
directed with Ukraine and Russia, but that was of course one of the other issues. Um, but also concerning Iran, the sanction regime was introduced first
mainly against Iran, but then was used for Russia. Uh, can be used against other countries, has been applied for other countries. Venezuela, whatever.
But this has really taught the world, oh, hang on. The dollar, you know, [snorts] which the the petro dollar system established very well as the international currency has a drawback.
You know, you have to more or less agree with American foreign policy and other things and they can just cut off your
spending. Do what CBDC is a design for retail ordinary people. Um the the petro dollar has been you know has been really
used now as as a as the same type of control uh currency to switch off demand
from a country that is you know suddenly uh on bad terms or it's just not behaving uh nicely. They're not good
boys so we need to punish them. As a result more and more countries are saying well okay let's not use the dollar. So it does undermine
the the the dollar hedgeimonyy and the petro dollar and of course for the last 10 years also more and more these BRICS
countries Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa and others have been working hard on setting up alternative structures. They've increasingly not
used the dollar, use their own currencies. There's been a lot of talk and work on a on an explicit bricks currency. There are issues there, but
the main point is they're trying not to use the dollar. They now have settlement systems. Chinese settlement system, the Russian settlement system is not linked
to the doll, not swift, not US banks being involved and so on. So um these are all endgame type of scenarios where
really the old system um and the tapering over the fundamental problems by just dealing with symptoms and the
symptoms there's another symptom that we need to deal with that creates you know it's like when you go to the doctor and they give you a pill that was really unnecessary but it's nice for the
pharmaceutical companies and that pill has five side effects and you go back to the doctor oh you now have these five other problems well we'll give you five
more pills for those Then you come back and you realize, oh, now I've got 10 more side effects. You go back to the doctor, they give you 10 more pills, you know, so clearly not sustainable.
Ultimately, the patient probably dies if you don't realize, hey, maybe pharmaceutical industry based medicine is not really the only medicine is not
the best. Likewise, we it's time to start to address the the root causes and root problems and and change policies
and then we have a chance of getting out and we could even then without default probably handled this 40 trillion debt because so much money has been
squandered. I mean that's the other thing. So the government spends and has this huge debt. But what are people getting for this money? What is the
taxpayer getting for this? If it's just blown up in some war far away that doesn't do any good for America. in fact create further problems like these toxic
pills, well then you're really it's a hopeless situation. But if it was if you start to spend it on something useful
um and you stop wasting money, you actually are then able to cut spending and then the spending is actually done to help the people, help the economy
which is very cheap. You know the local economy can be very easily supported if you just stop these wars. And of course, that's precisely why President Trump was
so popular and people voted for him because that's what he promised and he was a sensible, justifiable promise.
Sadly, well, somehow it hasn't quite happened. But if we could go back to that, there would be hope.
Well, lately, Scott Bennett has been uh attacking the symptoms, right? So, he's trying to get the long end of the curve down by by putting more Treasury money out there and buying it. But that's that's the symptom. What's the cause?
The cause is we have this inflation coming. The symptom is we have out of control spending that nobody like there's going to be no fiscal discipline in Washington until it's forced on them.
And now we have the so-called bond vigilantes starting to show up. Your Stanley Ducken Millers and the editorial board of Bloomberg all saying, "Oh, we've suddenly woken up and decided the
fiscal situation in the United States is untenable." Which coincidentally, Social Security receipts um went negative. Meaning that that now they
have to put cash over that side. And I predicted 6 months ago when I first saw it, I said, "Watch, we're going to get editorials about how it's time to reform social security because it's it's a net
cash drain on the TGA account and not a net cash positive." And here they are.
Um, but it it was all unsustainable anyway. Those unfunded liabilities, what 200 trillion, 175, 250, depends who's
counting, all it's not going to get paid. So you have to default on those in some way, right? Overtly, I'm so sorry.
we're gonna have to not give you any retirement income or covertly, hey, here's your 3,000 a month that just buys
you two cups of coffee, right? I don't see any way out of this that that doesn't involve like there's pain involved is there's no painless way. I
don't see given the structure of politics right now, given the disunityity we seem to have as a country, given the fact that everything
that the Federal Reserve has done post Bernanki has driven the largest, most unbelievable wealth gap because they just poured it all into financial
assets. Every time we had a little stock market hiccup, there's the Fed to the rescue. More liquidity, this is the most important thing. And I don't know that
they understood that the actual most important thing is small businesses doing real work. and getting out of bed in the morning and and making real stuff.
Yeah, entirely agree. So, it is really between the people and the small group of policy makers and decision makers. Do
we allow them to do what suits them, which means make everyone else pay or do we find a way in which we hold these
people to account and change the decision makers to people who actually look after uh ordinary people's interests?
So, but Richard, what walk us through this what happens if the worst thing happens sort of the United States uh treasury the risk-free rate of return
suddenly risk gets priced in? Um what happens if if the United States government can no longer count on
external funding to roughly balance its books at this point in time through borrowing? What what does that process look like?
Chapter 10: What Happens When Treasury Yields Explode?
Well, um probably even before you just you reach that actual point, what you'll
see is treasury yields rising more. Um having said that, I think we do need to be reminded that treasury yields have
been artificially low for 15 years. So we do come out of a very unusual and and
excessively manipulated situation where we have these artificially low interest rates. Fundamentally, interest rates follow economic growth and are roughly
the same level as normal GDP growth. So having 5% growth and 5% Treasury yields is just normal. So I just want to put
that out there so people realize, okay, I mean what what's the benchmark for comparison? So they're not really that high actually because we do have around
5% growth coming up um you know between three and a half four 5% to um closer
probably to the the the higher end there. So that's what you have to expect. Now when you then have concerns
about the um viability of this um of this debt, that's when you really add on to the yield because now investors have
to be compensated, new investors that is as you issue new bonds. The old ones, they're out um out there and and you know their their coupons are are fixed.
That's not going to change. So it's about the new bonds and that's why the problem is manageable if you reduce spending because then you have to issue
fewer new bonds. It's only the new bonds that will have the future possibly much higher interest to pay. The old one is
fixed usually very long 10 20 30 years at very low rates. Well that's great.
What uh the secretary of the treasury has been recently doing to support the bond market is to buy back the old
lowinterest bonds so that you take them out of circulation and issue new short
maturity highinterest loans. It's not really such a great strategy, is it?
When you look at the overall maturity because now um well, you have high interest u service costs and it was done
to support the bond market. That's why normally uh governments don't do that and they tell the central bank, hey guys, you know, you do operations for
us, buy some more bonds because the government should be quite happy as an asset manager. Hey, we issued those bonds at record low interest rates.
Fine. You know, that's great. we'll wait until they're mature before we, you know, we we don't want to prematurely
call them in because then we can only have to pay higher rates, right? Um, so, you know, I think we do need some some
clever some better measures to support the bond market than than than that. Um
but having said that I mean there is quite a few things that that could be done and and as I said the stable coin initiative I think that's going to rev
up and we will probably see more on that count uh coming up. Um but yes so your
question what will happen when things then go wrong? So they don't manage to manage this to handle this. The spending has not been reduced. We're just issuing
more debt and interest rates rise. Well, I mean they should rise because they've been excessively low as the first response has said and then if they rise
into an area where it's it's getting critical. So say 7 8%.
Treasury yield that's where all the calculations are I mean everything is is like all the alarm
bells are on and you you are the risk of getting this this this downward spiral.
um then you could I mean if that actually happened and the government and the central bank did not respond with other measures and and including you
know some some credible real ones and if we didn't see any reductions in spending then this only means okay it can only
get worse you'd see everyone fleeing the the you know the bond market dumping of treasuries
um um although of course now a lot of the investors that had previously invested
would be locking in losses. So even in that situation, some long-term holders will decide, okay, well um we don't want
to lock in losses. Um but some clearly there will be um selling and then as you
issue new bonds which is of course the real problem um then the price will get higher and higher and so um you know the
interest rate charged will be higher and higher and then the just the unsustainability will will become much more apparent.
you would then see as the next step the dollar reacting because then in in the international system particularly when a
lot of international investors are pulling out it would then really undermine the dollar. We've heard 10 years of discussions about petro dollar
in decline or ending and alternative systems we've seen we've watched being set up but really the dollar has you
know held in there and it's it's remained remarkably steady because these big structural things this like
background noise it's not real until it's real in the sense of actually being used.
I would pose that at that juncture that's when you could then see a real switch
away from the dollar and actual use of a greater scale um of settlement in the Chinese currency by more and more
countries a stampede even out of the dollar into other currencies and because the infrastructure you know has been established it's being set up in some
places complete already ready to go I think we'd see this which and you would certainly notice that then in everything
including the exchange rate. So a significant drop in the dollar at that stage um and great difficulties then to keep things together.
Chapter 11: Japan's Economic Warning for America
So kind of an emerging market scenario where our currency is falling and our rates are going up and you have to put attractive rates out there to halt that
currency process. Is that I I would be remiss if I didn't ask because I'm sure you know more about this than anybody. Um is this what's happening in Japan?
I've been quite concerned watching their yields explode higher and and their currency fall. Is that the dynamic we're talking about?
Yeah. I mean, Japan is is a very sad and unfortunate situation because none of this was necessary at all. The the national debt should be zero. You know,
until the 1980s, Japan actually literally had zero national debt really. Then it gave in the finance
ministry gave in to the demands from the Japanese central bank that it should incur some debt and issue government
bonds. I think 198283 is the first government bonds issued and it was tiny numbers but you know once you start doing it it's the thin edge of a wedge.
Politicians love it. Oh there's no more real budget constraint. We can spend some. Oh look we can issue government bonds. Don't worry about it. So the
fiscal discipline goes out of the window and but even then by the mid80s or late 80s
that still wasn't a problem. The numbers were still very very modest on an international scale. So it's really very very manageable. What happened next
created you know the problems that we're still dealing with today. So from the the the late 80 well from 86 87 onwards
the bank of Japan forced the banks to increase property lending dramatically creating this asset bubble which was part of you know US pressure in the
background the Fed the plaza agreement America wanted this to happen Japan is US occupied more or less they have to do what they're told and that's what
happened so then you had this asset bubble which was designed by the bank of Japan to blow up the system and you know they did it well the same people by the
way who did this Mr. Nino Mr. Fukui at the Bank of Japan they were rewarded and in the '9s they rose even to further
higher positions governor deputy governor and then even Fukuya as governor in 2003. So the same people were around there is absolute
consistency. Um they made sure this would create a 20-year recession because the idea was we'll use this recession to
break the successful high growth system and we will not do the the costless bailing out of banks. will ask the
government to do it incurring huge fiscal debt, huge national debt. So, and this 20-year recession and also bailing
out the banks, which the government should have done, the central bank is responsible. They should have done it.
That's no cost to the society and taxpayer. But by the government doing it, we have this huge national debt.
Fiscal policy was not monetized, was not effective, wasted, but created huge national debt. At at the peak was 300%
of GDP. It's now a bit lower but unnecessary, entirely unnecessary. Um, and then in recent years
as the dollar has come under pressure, Japan has also been used to support the dollar. How do you do that? Well, Japan
is our ally. As Kissinger says, it's it's bad to be America's enemy, but it's fatal to be its ally. So, Japan is being
cannibalized to support the dollar by forcing this artificially weak yen.
and forcing the Bank of Japan to keep this the system in place where um you know the economy has these artificially low interest
rates and you get the carry trade essentially everyone the whole world was borrowing from Japan in yen and it's a problem if the yen rises well
politically that was kept low um the Fed telling the bank no you can't you can't let the yen rise so you're actually in
the money also in the exchange rate borrowing so cheaply at negative or zero rates from Japan, big money. And then when you pay back, oh, the yen has
become even cheaper. So you're in the money on the principal as well. So it's been fantastic for international investors. But that's coming to an end
because that also has an end game. It has some kind of final um you know stage where they've been overdoing. I think
we've reached a turning point. I may be wrong, but I think when we hit just uh two weeks ago 164 and then we had this
concerted intervention. Um you know, of course, the yen has been weakening again a little bit, but it looks like that was
a turning point because the Bank of Japan is now beginning to to do the inevitable, namely, it's raising
interest rates in Japan. Interest rates should follow economic growth. Bank credit growth is now finally after 20 years is now decent. 6% bank credit growth. You get decent economic growth.
Long rates should follow that. They should rise to 6%. Well, there's still at, you know, a fraction of that. So,
they have to rise. That's normal. The Bank of Japan has artificially suppressed this on behest of, you know,
the Fed and Washington. Okay, we'll help you out. We'll keep the yen cheap. But that you know clearly on the the
government and finance ministry side finance ministry is responsible for ethics intervention. They've been arguing this is excessive yen weakness.
We're not going to tolerate it. So we're going to sell US treasuries. And that's where America you know Fed and Treasury
decide okay okay we get it. We've done this long enough many years now. This has to come to an end. It's agreed but in exchange please
don't sell treasuries. But you know yeah you you allowed to to raise rates in Japan and the yen is allowed to
strengthen. I think the yen has been excessively cheap. It's a good buy for investors. Of course it was used by key big investors including Warren Buffett
to buy a whole you know major companies all the trading companies for example.
Japan unlike many other countries that have crisis has extremely strong underlying real economy very competitive
companies hardworking people that's always been in place. So there's good value. The yen has been artificially cheap and more and more people will
recognize that. So I think that's turning and the yen is going to rise. Of course it does mean that the because the
yen carry trade will end is ending has been actually winding down. That's sort of excess liquidity that's going to be gone from the international markets.
That source and it happens at a time when you know it some people might say it would be nice to have that excess liquidity as support. it's not going to
be there. Um, investors are already switching or speculators rather switching to the Swiss Frank. Um, but
the Swiss central bank doesn't like that. They're going to impose punishment potentially negative rates at some stage
again. Um, and also, yeah, so the alternatives are going to be more limited. I mean nobody um in their right
mind except those that have US troops in the country perhaps um would really allow the country to be you know used
like Japan has. It had to end and it is ending. So that just adds to the problem. So we see we're at a at a juncture where a lot of geopolitical
things are coming to a head and there will be big changes I think. So final question Richard then for the United
Chapter 12: Is the United States Approaching a Breaking Point?
States um looking at our our economy but also our financial state status which has a monetary implication do things
potentially get better from here do they muddle through or is there a chance of a crisis? How would you weight those percentage wise?
Well, um I I um it's hard to to put precise percentages, but I can give you rough um
you know, my my sense um and of course markets, you know, there's there's always up and down and and you know, one
week you've got to panic about this, it calms down, next week. Um so there's all that volatility.
Um but overall we I I do fear that we're heading towards a breaking point. That probability I would rate is fairly high.
It's very hard to time that.
Mhm. I think more and more players are sensing that. Some big players, you know, moving entirely into cash. Um
because in addition, we have this quite scary problem and that's something to discuss perhaps on the on another show.
um that you know this this warfare is part of this u geopolitical strategy uh
that that is has been protecting you know US international activities and the petro dollar an escalation
seems to be happening and that escalation is it looks like it's getting out of hand and we are talking about the
possibility of this escalating into you know the world war So that's sadly a possibility that one has to consider.
And if some decision makers also see that, that may actually make matters worse because then you may get more and
more people thinking, "Oh, that's the solution. That's the way out. That's the other way out. Oh, we have a national debt problem." Well, if we have a real
officially declared global war, well, nobody's going to give us any trouble over national debt anymore because
everything will be essentially um under um uh emergency wartime legislation,
which is to say that there will be a dictatorship, which is the extreme form that's beyond CBDC's. Of course, CBC's can still be
used as the tool of choice to then manage that dictatorship, but everything will be um centrally planned and
centrally run like the US war economy was in the Second World War, you know.
So, um that's the sad other um possible scenario that I think is is likelier than people would like to believe.
Well, the UK is certainly um making lots of noises in this regard um indeed from official sources to people should
be ready, should be prepared, maybe we need a draft or consider one or being considered in many countries. Exactly.
Yeah. So, uh unfortunately that does seem to be the way out. um historically speaking, but against a backdrop this
time of of massive amounts of debt, most of it unproductive. The United States, we've sacked on tacked on $30 trillion
of new total credit market debt since 2020. Um it took us till 2002 to rack up our first 30 trillion. So to your point,
excellent point about that doubling time of exponentials. The aggregate growth is um we're we're we're in there. We're we're in the exponential trap at this
point. Um so more and more, we need more and more. And I'm a little worried that we're going to see less and less because yeah, that's just what the data says at this point.
But what we can do is make more people aware. And I think you're doing a great job. So that's our contribution to these issues, isn't it?
It is. It is. I I think yes, being aware is step one. Um what do you do about it is step two and that's what I really focus a lot of my effort on. So
individual resilience. Um buy gold, have some chickens, you know, stuff like that. It's where it sort of sorts out.
If you're billionaire, you just buy an island in a bunker. But I mean, for ordinary people, having some buffers in your life is can make sense.
Yeah. So, Professor Richard Werner, thank you so much for your time. Again, your Substack and your um your ex handles for everybody.
Thank you very much. Substack is rwer.substack.com.
Please do get my reports. Uh they've, you know, even the the very first I wrote, they're all still extremely current. So, I think I've got a good
track record. Um, and the X accounts are scientific, econ, and professor Wernner.
Excellent. Well, thank you so much for your time today. I very much appreciate it. Thanks very much. It's been great.
[music]
￼
All
￼
From yo
