Central Bankers Are Traitors To Their Countries
The central bankers turn out to be in in most countries essentially traitors to
their countries that work when push comes to shove for other interests that seem to be I don't know sort of on of a
sort of globalist certainly a sort of a bigger international scale as the World
[music] Bank once put it in the report or banking crisis um are a window of
opportunity [music] um it's an opportunity to change the ownership structure. Who are these
people and what do they want? Are they just enriching themselves? They're just stealing everything. Every country can deliver 10% economic
growth every year, year after year. And we don't need to have cycles. We don't need to have crisis. All that is is
totally unnecessary. So why aren't we getting it? It was kept a secret for centuries. How banking
works. Um and those who knew this of course could take advantage and they did take massive advantage.
Why Can't Britain Grow?
Eddie Wakeake. So good to meet you. Great to meet you. Like what an honor to talk to you. Um I
know we've got limited time, so we should hit the big points. Okay, help me understand something. Look, I'm not I'm not the smartest guy in the world, but I
know enough. We seem to have the best technology we've ever had. It's the smartest people we've ever had. Yet, our
economy appears to not be able to grow. We we appear to be in a cost of living
crisis. None of our public services seem to work anymore. What what are we
getting something fundamentally wrong or is there a group of people who know how to play this game of money better than
everyone else? Absolutely. I I think and you put it quite well um because it is a
contradiction. We've got we've got more knowledge available than ever before. Uh
we've got amazing technology and technology has you know and that's the
the known and sort of published technology because there's there's all the the you know black ops technology
and stuff but the known technology is already pretty amazing and progress clearly has been significant
um in in recent decades and so um why
our economy is performing so badly and why just ordinary people doing not so well middle class not not doing very
well and uh the answer is the short answer is well this is what the controllers I call
them the central planners um want to achieve basically what you get is what they want us to get you know what you
see is what's being planned um because all the the control levers
are in the hands of you know a small number of of of people and they could
switch to quite a different scenario. Um, you know, in economics there's a there's a principle there, you know,
there's this mainstream economics. It's very controlled economics, the economics you're supposed to know. And one of the
key protagonists in the 20th century, there has been Paul Samuelson. Um, for example, obscuring the power of
banks, uh, money creation that, you know, individual banks can create money. He obscured that by promoting this
fractional reserve theory which is well at best a halftruth. It does recognize
there's money creation in the system but it's very diffuse and each bank is just an intermediary and you know it's very
complex and you know he's got this this the story his textbook first the you know economics textbook out in 1947 then
was just you know updated um you know every few years and is still is still
going strong now and and that's that's been promoting this but so basically
yeah he's he's a classic case of mainstream supposed to lead people to the wrong information. But in his young
early years, he wrote a paper which they don't like to quote anymore. Um,
which he called revealed preference. And it's a very strong argument. And that's the one thing where I, you know, I agree
with him. He's arguing that since we assume that people are sort of, you know, rational
actors, they sort of know what they're doing most of the time. That's what economics assumes. Um, which may not be
necessarily true for a lot of people, but it's certainly true for the insiders who have the best information and the
best tools at hand. So he says that um because of that we we should really
expect that their intentions are revealed in their actions. Their actions
that is what they really want to do. Revealed preference. Don't listen to what they say. they can tell you all
sorts of stories what they want to do. Um, just watch what they're doing. And
of course, that's been the principle that I've I've been using for analyzing central bankers and and the central
planners in general because they do spin quite a yarn and have all sorts of
misleading stories um and uh and and that can send you off the wrong path.
Just watch what they're doing. Um, that's what they want us to to get. That
is the intention. And so, um, it's absolutely possible and and I really
think this is criminal that we're not getting it. It's absolutely possible to have sustainable high and when I say
high, I mean double-digit economic growth. It's a choice without inflation, without crisis, and
actually even arrange it so it's fairly equitable. everyone or most people you know that that want to work hard get a
chance um to do really well and have really an economy of abundance high
growth uh and so young people get responsibility early they get opportunities they can start companies
companies expands the economy grows there's constant need for new things being you know created goods and
services and so on that is possible so we could do really well every country
can deliver 10% economic growth every year, year after year. We don't need to have cycles. We don't need to have
crisis. We don't need to have, you know, one 2% growth or zero growth or some
countries like Germany now shrinking for years. All that is is totally unnecessary.
So why aren't we getting it? And so before you do that, yes, when you say they, the controllers, the
central planners, are we talking about the central banks? Are we talking about the government? because they seem too
incompetent. I I believe they're incompetent. Or is it higher above? Is it the asset managers around the world? Is it those
people who move the money around the world? I focused in my my work uh quite a lot
Princes Of The Yen
on the central bankers because they have most impact on the
monetary mechanism on the financial system the banking system um and the whole you know financial flows
and that's for for much of the analysis that's almost sufficient. You do hit the
point where you you sort of wonder why on earth are they doing this? Okay, you know, they're creating a 20-year
recession like in Japan. And and they did actually, you know, just these central planners in in the Japanese
case. They did reveal why they're doing it. You know, that's out in my book, Princes of the Yen
at quantumpublishers.com because I always say that because it's very hard to get on Amazon or elsewhere.
Um, I quote them where they and this is who are they when I say they these are
the central bankers. So the governor de deputy governor of the central bank and and also these people before they got
into these leading positions. They said on the record uh quoted in the NIK and other publications
why they were doing what they were doing and they say things like well we think it's it's better for the economy to have
a structural change of this this expression structural transformation even um because we want to we want to
change the economy um as the World Bank once put it in the report or banking
crisis um are a window of opportunity. Um, it's an opportunity to change the
ownership structure. Yeah, that's one way of putting it. That's what they did with the Asian crisis because, you know,
Asian countries were doing really well. Um, and foreigners had no share um in
that. you know, whether you talk about um Japan for for decades or Korea or
even Southeast Asian economies, Thailand, foreigners didn't really own
much of that and and banks were locally owned and so on. But the Asian crisis changed that and also the Japanese
crisis changed that. That's how you crack open these countries. Anyway, so they were saying we want to change the
structure, want to change the ownership structure. Um in the Japanese case it
was because basically the post-war um Japanese success was due to um a fairly
straightforward implementation of what is possible. The Japanese had researched quite well
what can we achieve what can be done if oh we can have high growth 15% growth for decades it's actually possible let's
do it that was announced um for example by um a new prime minister at the time I
in 1960 announced well we're going to double national income in the next 10 years a storm of you know opposition
that's nonsense impossible cannot be done all the economists outrage what how dare you this cannot be done impossible
Well, they did it in 4 and 1/2 years, you know, way ahead of schedule. Of course, it can be done and so they kept
doing it and then um it turned out that basically Japan was considered too successful
by very powerful players and that's where we have to push a little bit behind the central bankers. The central bankers turn out to be in in most
countries essentially traitors to their countries that work when push comes to shove for
other interests that seem to be I don't know sort of on of a sort of globalist
certainly a sort of bigger international scale. This show is brought to you by my
lead sponsor Iron the AI cloud for the next big thing. Iron builds and operates next generation data centers and
delivers cuttingedge GPU infrastructure all powered by renewable energy. Now if
you need access to scalable GPU clusters or are simply curious about who is powering the future of AI check out
iron.com to learn more which is irre.com.
So the so the it's the globalist network of lizard people [laughter]
is is it's not really a conspirac. It's true. There was a globalist network who has an
agenda. Yeah. They're the they're the they're the globalist people. Um and this agenda
is is not actually good for for most people um for ordinary people and for
most countries. And that's why they need traitors that help them. What but what who are these people and
what do they want? Are they just enriching themselves? They're just stealing everything. Well, I think it's about control and and
It Was Always About Control
in a way it it is embedded in the history of banking and central banking. So, you know, we don't really have to
leave that path very much to find answers because what happened is that
throughout history, those who first understood, you know, the tricks that are used by banks and,
you know, it was kept a secret for centuries how banking works. Um and those who knew
this of course could take advantage and they did take massive advantage and that
made them very powerful to the extent that kings and princes and you know monarchs were becoming indebted to them
and that always means you can extract some other things than just money. Yes, money and is best to lend to the
sovereign because they can tax the people to pay. So the introduction of central banks always goes hand-in glove
with the introduction of taxes, new taxes, income tax, and so on. When the Fed was created, they created the
federal income tax, which didn't exist before cuz somebody's got to pay the interest on that national debt, which is
going to pile up the moment you tell the government, well, we're going to create money for you, and you got to borrow the
money at interest, [laughter] right? So, so that's been the system.
And so you you have basically people who understand the system and essentially a
small number of dynasties that did really well over over the years over the centuries. Um while for centuries this
has been you know the mechanics have been very little known perhaps just before I continue on on this line just
um by the way um you know there's proof of this by the very fact that it took
until 2014 that the first empirical test was done.
I did this um on how banks actually work because it was still controversial and the claim that well banks create money
when they lend um was considered a conspiracy theory and textbooks many textbooks would just
not even consider it and there were famous economists saying oh that's just some monetary nut cases cranks even Kane
said oh these are cranks saying this sort of thing um well they thought they were going to the vault and and bringing the money
Banks Don't Lend Your Deposits
Well, yeah. I mean, you know, the the currently still dominant theory is the financial intermediation theory that
banks just gather deposits and those very deposits are then lent out. Um,
which is not what happens. Okay? But that's what the textbooks assume. So, and that's that's been until the 21st
century where these false narratives have been around. One very important
building block in fooling people about this already going back um something like 800 years
was the invention of double entry accounting which was of course created by and for the bankers. It's a very
clever way to hide the money creation and and always point out well hang on
there's nothing happening here. Look they're just balance. All the accounts always balance asset liability. Yeah. Look, show me where's the money
Show Me Where The Money Is Created
creation there. And this worked so well that with this double entry accounting um serious economist, the mainstream
until, you know, until the 21st century believed, oh, there's nothing to see there. Banks don't create money. So, of
course, those who who knew this and took advantage became very powerful asking for privileges,
um legal changes, uh more rights from the monarchs, from the from governments,
from countries. And so you can see how you know they move into a position of
very very strong power because essentially it's quite natural. First it's about money but once you have all
the money in the world you make all the money in the world the next is power. And so just to answer your question
finally um on a on a global scale then we see uh this principle that um you
know they want power um so the ultimate power is to to
concentrate power over the whole world in in a small number of hands and that
seems to be the game they're they're playing. So some kind of uh world
centralized government. Of course the globalists essentially have been saying that I mean it's not it's not a secret
you know they say that oh we need a globalized world so there should be no national obstacles to our global power.
That's really what it means right when you have all the globalist um demands implemented. And so that's um that's I
think the answer um to your question. of course they need people um motivated to
work with them for them and so the mainstream economics is one way to train people that that don't really see the
the full picture is that Keynesian horseshit for example yeah Keynesian I mean all
Every School Of Economics Gets It Wrong
these schools of thought uh and they they love to argue and quibble with each other but they're all very very similar
they're all equilibrium economics and the thing is so whether you start
with classical economics David Ricardo he was one of the great propagandists basically creating modern economics by
saying hey let's not look at the facts when we can have great theories that
that come to the conclusions we want them to come to so introduce the so-called deductive methodology where
you start with axioms and assumptions well that's what you say you start with axioms and assumptions then you build a
theoretical model mathematical so it's logic and the whole thing is very logically consistent and logic appeals.
I mean, men love logic. So, we're easily influenced by this. Oh, that's pretty logical. Got to be true. And that's a
big misunderstanding because logic is not truth. Just because something is logical doesn't mean it's true. It could
be true. I if something is logical, then it could be a description of reality.
But whether or not it's just a simple empirical question. You know, you need to still check the data and the facts.
But they never do. And of course the main trick in this ricardo approach which has started you know it's then
came to dominate the last 200 years of economics is that you present the whole thing in
reverse order. You start with your preferred conclusion. You work backwards what sort of model gives you that
conclusion. Then what assumptions do we need to be able to present that model and then present in reverse orders. Oh
let's just for sake of argument have these assumptions. you know there's some logical reasonable you know grounds
where we can have those and then oh we get this mathematical model oh that's quite logically consist oh and here's
the conclusion who would have thought that of course that's what the whole thing was aimed at to get that
conclusion I mean that's charlatanism so essentially that's how it started and and since Ricardo we've been on that
track and then within this equilibrium approach it's all you know equilibri is
the the foundational basis that that was chosen because there's no dominant market player and equilibrium is always
the markets. Um you assume demand equals supply. Um and then you have some
quibbles. So then you have after the classical economist Keynesian approach
new um neocclassical um postcanesian monetrist vixelian all
sorts of but they're all equilibrium thinkers and there's never been any
evidence of any equilibrium whatsoever. Right? So the whole thing is a whole bunch of baloney and they get away with
it because it's very logical and because people don't realize just because something is logical does not mean it's
true. Truth is empirical fact-based. So we just need the approach that's very
successful in the natural sciences which is let's look at the facts observation
data that's usually in the past right we don't have data on the future so history
and then let's build explanations based on that data that's not how economics
does it but if you did that and that I've been doing it uh in entire in my entire career that works very well then
you can actually see what's going on and you can have predictions about what's going to happen so there is a a global
network of powerful people, families, dynasties who are who have the ability
to control large parts of the world. Who's in power? Who isn't in power to
maintain their position as the wealthy people in the background like the big
grand conspiracy is not really a conspiracy. It's true. Yeah. Well, and and and as I said in my
analysis, I focus on central banks. And you can even say what you just said just by going to the level of central banks
because they have so much power already just in the hands of central banks and that's visible and it's not disputed and
you can prove it and show but are they just they're useful idiots? They're they're they pawns of these
people, right? So so again I mean in in the Japanese case I then was wondering okay so why on earth are they doing this? So
Why Would They Do This?
they could be just convinced by this argument that the Japanese economic system um is, you know, is not good for
Japan. Well, it delivered 15% growth for decades. It made, you know, it you double national income every four and a
half years at 15% growth [laughter] and it can be done. They've proven it can be done. And then Korea, uh Taiwan,
Singapore copied it. And then in 1978, China copied it. Deng Xiaoping came to
power. And the first thing it is, let's go to Japan. He went there with 300 of his top people. And he told the
Japanese, okay guys, we've we've done a lot of ideology, the deductive approach,
the Ricardo approach, which is logical arguments. The Mau red book. We're all
tired of that. We we're throwing out ideology. We just want to do pragmatic stuff that works. I've come here as a
student. Teach me how can I have doubledigit growth? And they told him. And that's what China did. Of course,
the key was the monetary system. They asked him, "So, how many banks do you have?" "Oh, one bank has central
planning." Well, the central planners love it. Power maximization control, but it doesn't really work well. It works
for the, you know, for the controllers, but everyone else is unhappy more or less and they get unhappier. Unhapp Exactly.
And we we end up where we are now, where we are, feels like we're on the fringe of civil war. You know, populism's on
the rise. Um there's a massive amount of discontent. Crime is up. Trust is down.
Nothing works in the country anymore. You know, inflation is rampant. Like everything is it feels like everything
is breaking around us. Exactly. And of course the UK is a great example because in the UK we are close
Britain Is Close To Central Planning
to central planning because there aren't many banks, you know, proper banks that do traditional banking. and we're talking
about five big banks, but they don't even do traditional banking anymore because once you get so big and your
balance sheet is more than 2,000 billion pounds, um you know, we've got five
banks of that size basically controlling the the financial system um accounting
for more than 80% of deposits. Then the problem is this the following
and we we confirmed this in research on the US where there's banks of all sizes and there's still fortunately a large
number of banks although it's going down there as well. They consolidated quite a bit on the region. Yeah, they did they did absolutely is
America Once Had 30,000 Banks
now but still sort of 5,000 left but there used to be used to be 30,000 in
the US right and some of the interesting uh kind of insurgent banks got taken out.
Silvergate was a very interesting bank got wiped out. Absolutely. Valley. Yeah. And these were all banks
that were interested in in crypto and were active there and they were suddenly taken out in what looks like an
orchestrated operation. But before I come to that, just just briefly finish that point. So what we found analyzing
those 5,000 banks of different sizes is it's a very simple principle which you know it's not surprising makes common
sense but again the finance literature had sort of disputed it. Namely, it's a
rule in banking that we confirmed. Big banks want to do big deals with big
customers. They need to. Who lends to small firms? It's small banks
and that's it. But that changes everything because when you then consolidate the banking system like in
the UK, nobody lends to small firms. Now, why does it matter? Oh, they're just small firms. Well, no.
And and you know, it's the middle class. It's the middle class. There's more that you know in the UK we've had for a century now this productivity puzzle and
you can look it up there's every few years it comes up again there's some u you know commission parliamentary
committee whatever discussing and debating why is productivity so low and UK productivity has been low say
compared to Germany for a century so why is that well it's very very simple productivity is simply we look at the
whole country the output producer we got GDP is a measure per person working and
here you mustn't use the total workforce but those people who actually work so for example if you've got unemployment well you can't count those because you
know that you want those people who actually working it's their productivity they produce the GDP so you calculate
that ratio that's your productivity it's been quite low in the UK now to find out
why that is you only have to look at who is the main employer of those people where do they work and that's true for
the UK UK, for Germany, for Japan, the US, the vast majority of people work for small firms. Small and medium-sized
companies employ 2/3 usually of employment. The UK, yeah, 65%
roughly in in Germany and Japan, it used to be actually higher between 70 and 80%. Anyway, just the majority works for
small firms. And now, how can their productivity be higher? Well, I tell you
why. German small firm productivity in the past, I mean, the last few years have been a disaster. I'm talking about
before the current disaster of intentional destruction and de-industrialization in Germany um
pro was quite high because whenever new uh technology came up
um small firms would realize I mean they go to the fairs in their industry and mess and and so on and they realize okay
these are new trends and of course oh there's a new technology that affects our industry our section our market
niche Well, we've got to get it. It means we've got to spend some money. We've got
to, you know, we've got to master that. We got to buy that technology and apply it. Where do we get the money from?
Well, we go to our local bank. And that's the system in Germany. There's um the numbers also been declining, but
there's still around, you know, 1,200 small local banks, cooperative banks mostly, some savings banks. and you go
to your local bank and you explain they know you're ready as you because they only lend locally. They will not lend
outside the local area. So they know all the firms there. Um oh yeah so you guys okay there's this new technology you
guys want to get that. Okay let's look at the the plans here and within within maybe two days they would have the money
and they can buy the technology implement it. In the UK forget it.
This is nothing. Yeah. they find out, okay, there's this new technology, we got to get it. Ah, it's too expensive. We can't do it.
Okay, let's find a workaround or other ways of but they can't really get the funding.
That's the problem. And so productivity stays low and and why is that? Because the banks are large and large banks only
do large uh customers, large business. They don't want to deal with small firms
and that's all it is. Now the consolidation of the UK banking system took place before the first world war
and the problem therefore has been known. I mean there every few years as I said we have these studies not just on
productivity there's also studies on the banking sector the problems with the UK banking sector and they always come to
the same conclusion. Wow, it's so concentrated banking sector. And there's this great report, the Coowwin report,
which says that, yeah, the problem is concentrated banking system. The big five dominate banking. They don't lend
to small firms, and they give only short-term loans, uh, one year, two-year loans. And so, um, that's the problem.
Forget about it. And that report, the Cowin report, I think parliamentary committee was
The Problem Was Identified In 1918
published in 1918. So more than a century ago, the problem had been identified. But what what had
been done about it? Nothing of course until this day because really the the goal is concentration and they don't
care about the middle class. The fact that most people work for small firms and if you want um a healthy wealthy
economy, doing well, people doing well, you need many small banks. Yeah. But in this country um there are strong
interests in the city of London against this. I mean, if you want to set up a a new bank for the super rich and you make
your business case that, well, the super rich need a special bank. Oh, you get the banking license in record time of
course, but try to set up a local community bank is definitely um not going to be easy to
put it mildly. Oh man. So, so when you look at the political layer here, Germany or
wherever, you know, you you make the assumption a politician wants to be successful. They want to be respected.
They want to be seen as somebody who was good for the country. H and a lot of our problems are down to the economy. Not
everything. There's immigration question at the moment, but there are a lot of things that come down to the economy. And you say it's easy to fix. How can
they how are they unable to fix it? Are they also just incompetent or are they also useful idiots? We talk about people
being captured. Do we does the tap on the shoulder happen? It's like, no, this is how it really works. Trump was meant
to be this, you know, anti-establishment, drain the swamp, no foreign wars, guys. Something's happened
over the last year. He's got involved in a foreign war in Iran, which was to everybody on the outside, this is this
is a dumb move. To those who look at this stuff go, "Oh, no. This this is this is a required war because we
require this war to be able to keep funding the military-industrial complex and yada yada." Is it is it are we are
we basically just being shown this is how it is now? And it's like this is how it is. Well, in in many ways, yes. Uh because
in in the UK, of course, it's it's a bit more entrenched even than in the US, just historically. Um look at the uh the
I mean, the formal legal structure of the UK is is a very strange one, right? There's no constitution. Oh, there is a
constitution. It's just not written down. Well, okay. And it's not all relevant anymore. Um yes. Well, but why is it not written
down? You see, there's a good reason. This is why it will never be written down. Because
when you then actually look at who has power, um you see that there is a very
strange entity called the city of London Corporation. Yes. Which is a sovereign state
that the king is not allowed to enter without permission. Therefore, it's not directly part of his sovereign
territory. But the sovereign state has representation in parliament unelect
elected but also unelected representation. Unelected representation is the remembrancer who um is allowed to participate in any
debate and and and be there in any proceedings in order to make sure that nothing happens against the interest of
the city of London. So it's a privileged entity that has clear um powers that are above
ordinary people and and the rest of the the entire nation. Right. So how's that
all the money? Well, exactly what what what happens in the city of London? That's where the banks um have been and that's where the
Who Runs The City Of London?
for most of his history privately owned Bank of England was established and the banking powers um got established and of
course their voting in the city of London is not democratic either right um
because it's not people who vote it's companies who vote by the number of employees but it doesn't mean the
employees get to vote no it's the bosses and that's how the city of London does its voting which is not democratic so
actually at the heart the UK there is it's it's a non-democracy
and so and these are just some examples of institutional features and then it shouldn't be surprising that um that
unfortunately yeah it's it's the wrong incentive structure um and and we don't seem to get results but but also at the
same time of course media is very important and that's where your role comes in you're doing a great job
with the independent guys exactly yeah I'm trying to do this and not get arrested shot [laughter] because uh yeah it well so
I'd like I like to my my favorite kind of person I hope listen to this show is just a normal person trying to get by in
life figure it out who uh is is kind of waking up to the idea that the
government isn't working for them. Uh one thing I keep tweeting regularly at the moment is stop voting for poor you
know stop getting involved in these like bitter fights where you keep this machine running that's making you poor.
For a lot of people out there, your hardworking people are getting up in the morning. They're going to work. They're driving a lorry. They're running their
small business. They're doing what everything they can, yet life is getting harder. They they can afford less. They
get to the end of the month, got no money left. How are they meant to understand how this is happening around them? What is actually being done to
them? Right. Well, basically, I think they sense that it could be
better. And they're absolutely right. So everyone who thinks well hang on this is this is not really the best. It could be
it could be much better. They're all correct and it's I can I can easily
demonstrate that we can have in the UK 10% growth. I mean give me the job at the at the Bank of England. The Bank of
England could engineer 10 12% growth for two decades.
But to do that you need to implement policies that some very influential people don't like
such as such as um establish I mean the most important thing is to establish many small banks okay
We Need Thousands Of Small Banks
local banks because it immediately um takes some of their centralized power the central planning power and
decentralizes it and you know spreads out the power the decision-making power that's what Denging was told by the
Japanese when he asked them tell me the secret of high growth and they say, "What? You've only got you
only got one bank for the for a billion people. How about you create 5,000 banks
and each bank has 30 branches and each branch has 35 loan officers. Then you
will have more than 5 million loan officers that each year will receive
hundreds of millions of loan applications from small because these are small banks, they need to lend to
and they will lend to small firms from small firms. And of course, you know, you select the best. That makes sense.
There has to be selection. But the decision will be locally. And now you've
totally decentralized. So you've you've moved from a centralized system, [clears throat]
essentially the Soviet central planning system that the UK is very close to really with five banks and the Bank of
England that's pretty centralized. Um and and and China, you know, with one
bank. So then they they switched from the Soviet system to the highly
successful decentralized system which is all what all the high growth economies have done. When Britain was successful,
it had thousands of banks and uh cooperatives, savings banks, local banks, uh credit
unions that were proper banks, you know, uh not what they are now. They're not allowed to to to lend properly to small
firms. So, um, many types of provincial banks and so on. I mean, we're talking now, of course, now about the 19th
century when growth was double digits and there were literally thousands of
banks. Okay, so you guys know that I'm not just an equities guy. I'm a Bitcoin guy, too. And for people like me, just
holding Bitcoin has been the winning strategy. But for others, they like a little diversification. Whatever the
strategy, each cycle, I'm always like, I wish I knew how to trade this. I just never try because I'm not a trader and I
don't know what the hell I'm doing. So, this is where Arch Public comes in. They can help you implement a custom strategy
that works for you. Because if you've held Bitcoin or Salesforce stock over the last year, man, you have taken every
draw down on the chin. But you can make that volatility work for you. They built a platform that automates layer trading
strategies across stocks, ETFs, Bitcoin, and commodities, handling buying, selling, profit taking, and
accumulation, all directly in your own exchange account. So when they asked to sponsor the pod, I said I have to see
this first. And they introduced me to their market way product where you can customize buyers and sells based on the
triggers, risk profile, and time scales that work for you. And that is what I've done. Now listen, I'm not telling you to
go and blindly ape in. But if you're looking to protect your downside and make volatility work for you, give them
a call. Ask to see every trade and make them prove the math. So, if you're trying to accumulate smarter, take
profits, use volatility, or tax lost harvests alongside your CPA, take a look at Arch Public by heading over to
archpub.com/peter. That's archpub.com/peter.
So, in my world, Bitcoin and gold has been quite the debate over the last few years. But why not both? Well, our boys
over at Leen have now got them side by side on just one platform because they
now support Tether Gold alongside their expanded support for USDT and UST. So,
you can now trade across 10 integrated pairs with transparent 0.5% spreads. You
can also now borrow and repay in the stable coin that works for you. Now, every asset is protected by the same
custody discipline that has safeguarded over $11 billion in client value since
2018. Your transaction account and loan collateral assets are never lent out for
interest, never used to generate yield, and never put at risk to fund the business. That's the world's hardest
assets with the flexibility to move between them. So, you can explore this and what else is new at leen.io.
That's led.io, io which is led.io. Just know that availability does depend
on your jurisdiction. But hold on, why would they not want
small businesses to be success? It's the power. It's the power dimension. So as we said earlier, so
First The Money, Then The Power
first, okay, these guys about the money, but once they have all the money, what do they want next? And human nature
being what it is, never satisfied. They want power next. And that's what it's about. If you have this decentralized
system, you are giving local people power and you are empowering families
and local, you know, small business, family businesses and that's what they don't like. They want to centralize
everything which is ultimately is evil and and human nature being what it is
once you get so powerful as Lord Actton quite astutely stated and he wasn't
trying to be dramatic or overstating it. You know, power corrupts because why?
Because power gives people the ability to do stuff and get away with it.
And unfortunately, it's just an obirical observation. Not many people can handle
power. So they will start to abuse the power. And that's the reality everywhere, not just in developing
countries, everywhere in Europe, in the UK, Germany, is it's everywhere. So once
you have absolute power, the corruption will be absolute. And and the idea will be, you know, you get these tempo
dictators um whether you see them or not, and very often you don't see them because they want to then stay in the
background. Um so this is really what it's about. But so if people are informed about this, they can demand
um more and we should demand from our politicians, local politicians, national politicians, we should demand high
growth and prosperity because it's possible. And it's actually a whole bunch of BS when they tell us, oh,
austerity, scarcity, belt tightening. It's complete nonsense. We don't need
any of that. Even the story they told us since the early '7s, you know, this limits to growth. Even that was BS.
Because you see, they mixed up on purpose again. They mixed up the the concepts. Uh they say, "Oh, well,
there's there's physical limits to growth surely." Well, hang on. So you're talking about
physics, right? Physical limits, physical finite things in physics. Okay. Well, if you want to talk physics, you
will find out there is no growth in physics because energy can be transformed, but you can't create
energy. You know, there's no growth. So when we talk about growth, you are always talking about economic growth.
Now when you talk about economic growth, what is economic growth? What is GDP, national income? What is it? It's a
statistical concept that is made up in order to you know it had a purpose
originally it was the guys who were about to set up the bank of England wanted to know how much can we extract
in interest and taxes from this country and that's what national income accounting was supposed to do so but a
broader um use is it's a measure of well economic strength and prosperity it has
flaws but it's a sort of rough and ready measure of economic strength economic
prosperity. That's what GDP national income is. But it's a statistical fiction.
And that's why the statistical fiction can't hurt the environment. So growth is not the enemy of the environment. That's
the first point. That's why we we don't have to limit growth because that will save the planet. That's nonsense. You
know, it's just there's no link. These are different dimensions. One is a statistical fiction we've made up and
the other one is the environment physical reality. And secondly, um, what about limits to
growth? Well, there aren't any limits because growth is driven by productivity. Productivity is driven by
technology. Technology is invented by humans and the ultimate limit is human
ingenuity and nobody's found a limit to that one. Well, I think I think they're finding
ways to limit it. Well, of course, artificially they're suppressing the the
economic growth that's delivered and they're in the central planners. You know, it's very simple. if you reduce.
So what drives growth in very concrete terms, economic growth is simply a direct proportional function of bank
credit creation um for productive business investment.
In other words, bank loans, the quantity of bank loans to productive businesses. And when you lend to small firms, that's
mostly productive. Um and that's a simple way of of doing it. Therefore, if you set up 5,000 small local banks uh as
as Deng Xiaoing did, then you will get a lot of investment in productive things
and you will get implementation of technology on a large scale. But decentralized you get high growth, 15%
growth for decades, four decades as it happened, lifting more people out of poverty than anywhere else before. That
can be done any country. Other countries have demonstrated it. Um and and so um
you know Britain can do this. We can have this high economic growth. But how
how can we get how do we get to where we are now to that? Because you know I look
at I mean Karma was a disaster. The conservatives before them were a disaster. You look at Andy Burnham now
even today saying national defense uh will not come at the expense of uh uh
social security. Um they it appears that Healey will be raising taxes in the next
um budget which may be cap gains or exit taxes. It feels like they're just
like they're [clears throat] tightening and tight tightening around us. And I look at them and I'm like are these useful idiots? Are they incompetent?
Do they know what can be done? but they get near power and power doesn't allow them to do it. Uh do we just need a
revolution on the streets? Do we need the the public to really understand that it is this machinery that is destroying
the prosperity and the future of our children, our country? Like what do we do? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, first people need
Every Country Can Have 10% Growth
to understand that we can have high growth. We just need um many small banks lending to small businesses. Um, you
know, when you've got a lot of bank credit for productive business investment, you get high growth. If we
had 10% growth in this bank credit, we would rev up economic growth. You know, 5 6 7% pushing it towards 10% is
possible. Um, and then why is this not happening? Because often, yes, when politicians
say, well, hang on, actually, it's a good idea. Let's set up a local bank in this regional area, this local area.
Basically, it's a no-brainer because the costs are very limited. You just need 20 million in capital and then after three,
four years, this 20 million will have injected, you know, a multiple, you
know, you get maybe 400 500 million, you know, with a bit of growth, expansion of
the bank, you you soon have a billion in loans from this 20 million in capital
and it becomes a flywheel. Yeah. And of course it's it's profitable and you know and if you do it well. See there's never been a banking crisis
because people say oh you set up banks that's risky. Well hang on. When banks lend for productive business investment
you get growth no inflation and no crisis. It's when banks lend for consumption you get consumer price
inflation. And when banks lend for asset purchases including real estate uh financial assets. And nowadays these
five big banks, they mostly lend to private equity funds and hedge funds because they want to do it such big
deals and that's that's the only thing they found because they're so big. Uh then you get asset inflation and banking
crisis and that's why we've had this boom bust cycle in the UK the whole time the last century. So it is very simple.
People don't understand that that we can have high growth by having many small banks lending to small firms pushing out
productive business investment. But next and so politicians, some politicians, you know, do understand this and I've
had quite a few politicians actually support me in the past when I worked on setting up the Hampshire Community Bank
where we had a lot of um opposition and in the end the the the biggest shareholder when we're just ready
everything was ready. We've gone through the applicant journey with the Bank of England and you know they they you know
moved the gold post many times but we managed to get through there and then we're about to hand in the application.
our main shareholder decided to pull out and so yes because ultimately at that
stage there was small money you know um they hadn't even put in their full 5 million they' pledged and they they
pulled out um but of course once the bank would have launched it would have been quite a different story so um but people need to
understand that they can be done and then we need to to support those
politicians who are gaining understanding and And there's there's there's some that have come out. There's
one politician who was on my radar quite early on because she um criticized the
Bank of England when she was just a member of Parliament. This list trust indeed then and books are there. She's been there
Liz Truss And The Bank Of England
three times. Okay. Excellent. And she got it. And then Exactly. So, and I thought, oh,
oh, here's a lady who seems to know a bit because she understands the important role of the central bank and she understood that, well, hang on, just
the central bank is not really accountable for what it's doing and we're not really asking the central bank to do very much and we need to have
higher standards. Um, and and we can't be bullied by the central bank. Then she
became prime minister, which wasn't really planned. I think you know Rishi Sunnak was supposed to be the prime
minister immediately. So then she was there as prime minister and immediately um it looked the Bank of
England staged a coup. Yes, they her and that proved her entire point entirely and she's been vindicated now.
And you also see of course how the media are essentially uh complicit, not just
complicit, actively uh colluding in this because they gave her such a bad write up, you know, calling her names and oh
she's stupid. Come on, she's been at Oxford. She's a smart lady. In fact, to me, she was one of the smartest
politicians because she understood this power mechanism. And I think she's the greatest prime
minister we basically didn't have. What was it 50 56 days or something? So, I I
consider we didn't really get to have her as a prime minister because she wasn't she she she saw the problem. She
understood the problem of debt. She understood productivity. She understood the Bank of England. She understood it all. She understood incentives. And she
wanted to move quick. She wanted to move quick and get things done. and they up. So, and and what the Bank of England did
was very simple. They just sold government bonds. You create a mini crisis in the bond market. You know,
yields go up. Um and the media then very importantly writing these stories. And of course the the central banks they
love to uh essentially nurture and and sort of uh um you know have their um the
journalists over the years that get invited and get special treatment and and you know the Bank of England doesn't
ever get a critical write up even when they caused the you know 2000 joint jointly caused 2008 crisis oh no or the
inflation of uh 2122 central bank money creation out of control it seemed
no negative write up on the Bank of England at all. So then the control over the journalist is quite good, quite
subtle. Um, and works very well. Um, and that's the other problem. That's where independent journalism comes in.
Yeah, they haven't got me yet. I haven't had that tap on the shoulder. [laughter] But oh man, this is this is I'm thinking
of two ways, Richard. I'm thinking this is so sad, but actually what an
opportunity we have in a country if we can just get everybody to understand that we can have a different way.
That's right. As you said, we can have growth. We can really have prosperity, abundance. We can literally
have abundance. Yes. We can we can reduce the welfare state. We could shore up our defenses.
We could protect our border. We could do all of this, but we just have to re in the or get rid of the central bank. I
asked that question of Liz when she was sat here for the first time. I said, "Should we should we just get rid of the
Bank of England?" She said, "That's an interesting question." Um, we don't need central banks. Um, I
We Don't Need Central Banks
mean, the UK, Scotland in particular, but also the US, these are examples of very strong economies over decades
without a central bank. The US, you know, the Federal Reserve is quite a young central bank. And the Fed.
Uh, the Fed. Yes. and and so um and so um it's absolutely possible
mostly what they what they do is they suppress growth. Now what they talk
about and what they show us as their main policy tool is interest rates and that's basically a um a decoy because
I've I've analyzed this and if you look up my work reconsidering monetary policy for example is name of a paper um which
is open access um interest rates short rates is you
know pretty much influenced by central banks follow economic growth you know in the long run they just always follow
growth. So as uh Dame Kate Barker who used to be on the MPC at the Bank of
England said um you know at the conference she said on on stage um when
I think about my my time at the monology policy committee um it's really been a
bit of a waste of time. Why? [laughter] And of course, if you look at the data, that's obvious because, you know, um,
rates actually follow growth and they're positively correlated, which is the opposite of what economic theory tells
you, the mainstream propaganda. They say lower rates lead to higher growth, higher rates lead to lower growth. The
truth is the opposite. Higher growth leads to higher rates. Lower growth leads to lower rates. And that's that's
it. So interest rates aren't really the tool, the main tool they use. They use
the quantity of credit. and it's disagregation, but they don't want to talk about it because they want they
don't want people to catch up how important this is and then start setting up small local banks, you know. [sighs]
Were The Austrians Right?
Oh, well, we've got the answer. Well, um, so were the the Austrians correct?
Um, the Austrians are correct in their point that they they recognize bank
credit creation quite explicitly and that's great. And also quite a lot of Austrians are very critical of central
uh banks because they're general critic of central critical of central planning. And so I I have the same views on those
points. They do have some other points where I diverge. For example, they say oh we shouldn't do statistical
econometric analysis on data. Why not? I mean obviously we should look at data and the facts. Um they were saying well
it can be easily manipulated. But it doesn't mean that you shouldn't do any data analysis. just make it transparent. And there's some very good approaches
like Professor David Hendry's approach at Oxford, the Hendry approach where you
can't manipulate the data. You first run a regression with all the possible
explanatory variables. Um, and your enemies uh variables, you
put them also in all sorts of, you know, whatever. Put them all in. Call it a big general model. And then you run it. And
then you simplify with a very transparent procedure by dropping the
most insignificant variable only one cuz in statistics if you drop one everything else will start to change but you drop
the one that's totally insignificant. Then run it again and then again drop the one that's most insignificant and
run it again and keep doing that until you get the significant data. And that is letting the data speak. And that's
how I've done it in my work. And it's it's bank credit inevitably always. And that explains economic growth. It
explains all these things. Banking crisis, inflation, credit creation explains it. But we're not supposed to
talk about it. We're not, you know, the textbook economics doesn't even acknowledge that banks create money. But
if people want to look it up, there's the paper. Can banks individually create money out of nothing? That's one. And
the other one is lost century in economics. These are two papers of mine also open source uh can be accessed and
read. Yeah. So um it's quite interesting because we are at
this time now where people are just I think people are desparing about what is
going on in this country and in other countries as well. I think Canada, Australia, America, Germany is pretty bad. Germany is really bad. Yeah.
I mean your one your one great market, your car market is collapsing it feels like under attack.
Yeah. the government has has essentially killed the the the golden goose, the goose laying the golden eggs. Um, you
know, shooting down the um the automobile industry with all the subcontractors and all the small firms,
you know, this is a huge supply chain. Will AFD fix this? Um, what have AFD said about central banks
or banking? Well, they they've sensibly said that they um want to exit the euro,
which would make perfect sense because that means um you're not in charge of your monetary policy. You they have no
monetary policy. Um and of course it was complete nonsense to abolish the European
currency, the Deutsche mark, and introduce a foreign currency called the euro and sell it as the European
currency. That's been a big failure. So that's sensible if they do it. Uh, also they
said they would like to exit the EU, which will also be sensible. I mean, the EU is a dictatorship.
Yep. You know, it's it's modeled on the Soviet Union. Um, they have a parliament. That's their claim. Oh,
we're democracy. There's European Parliament. Nobody votes. Nobody knows. I couldn't tell. I couldn't name one European
politician right now. [laughter] I can't I don't know. But whether you vote for them or not, these MEP is highly paid, overpaid, they
have no power. Normally, a politician is supposed to be a lawmaker. and in the British uh Parliament in in Westminster,
yes, they're lawmakers. They can make laws, but not in the European Parliament. You see, the Soviet Union
claimed to be a democracy. And their claim was we have a parliament. But it was a rubber stem parliament where the
um the members of parliament had no power to write laws. Where did the laws come from? From the unelected pullet
bureau, the center of power, the CC, the the Communist Party had the power. Now that's exactly what they modeled the
European Union on because the members of parliament have no power to propose any laws. All the laws come from the
unelected political called the European Commission. That's the dictatorship. And so it's formally it is the Soviet Union
um you know uh revived sadly. So getting out of that one will also definitely
help because they keep turnurning out these ridiculous laws um which supersede
national law at the moment. This is crazy. And that's just what these um
commisars at the commission do. I've um um decide. I've just written a new
report on my Substack rwer.substack.com on the latest centralization plans. I
mean, they're literally going to they're moving towards capital controls. Oh, is this the Christine Lagard plan?
Yes. Yeah. She's an evil witch of a world. Well, it's it's a combination of course. It's is clearly ECB um is involved, but
it's also the commissars in Brussels. I mean, you have to understand the they want our deposits. Exactly. And they've said it, you know,
They Want Your Savings
um they want our savings and of course, you know, the UK is going to it almost
feels like the UK never left the EU because all the crazy EU rules somehow the UK also wants to adopt.
Yeah. Yeah. We're crazy here. But yeah, no, she's she seems like some kind of evil witch who just wants to steal from
everybody. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. and wants to use it for warfare, make war on a on a nuclear
power, Russia. Um, [laughter] I mean, it's pretty crazy stuff, but it's happening. It's is very real. So,
there's a um one restriction coming into place um January next year is that uh
banks from outside, this also affects British banks, banks from outside the EU will not be able to offer deposit
accounts if they don't have an EU uh license, a local license. and they have
to be authorized. Um, so that that's quite shocking because it's the first
step towards capital controls. Hold on. Is this why they're so scared of Maria Le Pen, the AFD, Rupert Lo, the
the guy with the crazy hair and Holland? Are they scared of all and the Romanian party? They're they basically they are
scared of all the right-wing parties because they tend to be more conservatives and conservatives tend to
be more you know have a focus on more kind of sovereign ideas uh sovereign rules uh but pro business uh it's much
easier to have your left-wing Marxists in power to maintain this and that's why they call everybody who disagrees with
them a communist. Is this why they've been flooding Europe with immigrants to to maintain this?
Yes. And I would even say we shouldn't use the concept uh rightwing here. Of
course, AFD. We call it normal. Exactly. Because if you literally just take the um all the policies, the
Europe's New Right
proposed policies of the German AFD, which everyone calls right-wing, extreme rightwing in neo-Nazi or whatever, it's
almost a Nazi party. They they will use the Nazi word. What they said here when it was announced when they I can't what was the
region they did well in just now. Yeah. Saxon unhold. Saxony unhold.
So they in the British press, the BBC, the propagandists at the BBC said the farright party, the first
far-right party since the Nazis. That was the headline. Mother. No. So when has to correct that?
That is nonsense. all their policies um actually 20 years 25 years ago were
supported in Germany were the main policies of almost all the parties including the left SPD the socialist
party so so really they're just centrist it's a centrist party but what happened
20 25 years ago is the CIA which is very much in control of Germany since 1945
they never you know um given up their occupation powers and they've always used them and and they They claim
legally they're allowed to do all the things they do in Germany because of occupation status. Um you know Germany
is still not sovereign which is a whole other can of worms but it's a fundamental problem in Europe that you
know Germany is is not actually a sovereign country and the parties and politicians essentially have to do what the CIA tells them and the CIA will show
them here's the law occupation statutes you have to do what we tell you. Um and of course there's other ways to to make
them yes make them do what they want to. And so um so the um um the this this the
CIA gets what it wants from the from the politicians um and and the politicians
um are not delivering uh what could be delivered um to the country um such as
high growth um and um sorry I just slightly lost my thread there.
Well I mean so I'm interested in in AFD really. Sorry. Yes. So I got the point.
So um so the uh the points that the AFD is making is literally what was
mainstream um parties even the left parties would would consider centrist. So it clearly
was not rightwing. SPD had the same views on immigration 20 25 years ago as
AFD now. And you can you can demonstrate this. So what happened? The CA 20 25
years ago shifted the entire political spectrum in Germany to the extreme Marxist left. The
entire spectrum. So CDU CSU is supposed to be right conservative
is right out there with the Greens with the the lefty parties and you just don't notice any difference. And so AFD is
just a you know people who have decided well we're not going for this propaganda. man is a man and and
whatever cultural revolution they've been trying to to implement. We don't want immigration. We don't want
large amounts. We don't want to have mosques everywhere. We don't want to we want uh people to get married, have
children, and have a sovereign conservative life. I mean, it's I mean, it doesn't mean one has to be against um people who have different
views. I think that the most um sort of centrist people with these views are
actually very tolerant of other people like liberals. Yeah, exactly. very tolerant. It just means that well hang on you can't force
this on everyone to have these very different things um different views where most people just want to be
normal. This rightwing/ centrist position I think is going to sweep across Europe
now. I think it's going to I it looks to me correct me if I'm wrong but AFD didn't get enough. They have to do a
coalition with one party. And you know why? because the uh the mailin vote was surprisingly extremely
different only for AFD and for the other parties they had lots of mail in balance. Sounds a bit like what happened with
that mayor in Los Angeles. Yes. Yes. Well, many places in the US um and and it's very strange and in fact
there were incidents they found uh in in German recent elections where um sort of
these ballots sent out ballot forms to to um um care homes and elderly homes,
you know, that's where a lot of funny business going on. Or they sent they accidentally sent five times as many
ballots, you know, one thing there was basically was they were caught they were caught
um and so on. So, um it's very When's the general election? When's the next national general? Um I think it's um it's next year, isn't
it? Or is it 28? AFD have a good chance of winning it, right? How will they try to stop them?
Um well, I mean, you you do see that the the AfD is um is quite popular in the
former so-called East Germany. I mean, it's really central Middle Germany. um
and the AFD, you know, the former GDR, German Democratic Republic under communism, that's where they're doing
really well. Um whereas in Western Germany, essentially, we see that this post 1945 American program of
re-education, which [snorts] is an official program still running under the occupation statutes, um has been very successful in
brainwashing people and it's a sort of cultural Marxism program. Yeah. um which has which has been
stepped up a lot in the last 25 years. Um and that there you see the difference
whereas in East Germany they didn't have it until you know so-called
reunification 1999 they didn't have it and therefore you
don't have the that history that prehistory of brainwashing people and you see the the voting results quite
quite clearly. Oh man. Well say I think we're going to see a wave of it. I mean, we need to get organized better in this country because
our right-wing parties are splitting all over the place. But like I say, they've tried to stop Le Pen. They tried they
tried to throw Did they try and throw in jail? I think Yeah. Yeah. There was criminal case. Yeah. But but the you know, Spain I
think Spain is going to have a right-wing revolution with everything that's happened with I pronounce it
queta, but I think it's got a different pronunciation. Um is it suta? Yeah. Suta. Yeah. Oh man. Listen, look,
sadly, we've hit our 1 hour. People are listening. We we've tried to make this happen three times and uh uh power cuts
and air traffic controls got in the way and I feel like we've barely started. But this is a good start. We will have
to do this again, Richard, and carry this on. Um I am going to spend some time understanding more about central
banks and local banks and uh try and make that a lot more about what I talk about so people can understand what we
need to fix our country. Excellent. It was too short, but I thank you and we will definitely do this again.
Thanks very much. It will be a pleasure. And check out uh Richard's books and Substack. We'll put it in the show notes. Love you all. See you soon.
