And Israel is obviously the destabilizing force for the US military industrial complex. Netanyahu doesn’t work for Israel. Netanyahu works for the military industrial complex. And there is a change that’s happening as a result of this world order because the financial industrial complex is co-investing with the Gulf countries.

And so they’ve persuaded regional stability because we’ve now got China money and you get your region. So America, I believe is being shrunk into the Western hemisphere. And Trump is there to use tariff policy and deconstruct everything that’s propped up the dollar in order to shrink America into a regional power.

And in exchange the military gets to say, right, you’re no longer got the profits of the Forever war in the Middle East, you can go back to Europe and South America will make up for lost revenue there. And we’ll subordinate, we’ll do civil unrest campaigns and yeah, we’ll give you your digital ID, your Palantir surveillance date, your social credit score.

America, we’ll privatize all the stablecoins and you guys can have a CBDC so that all the power goes up to the American stock market and you’ll be fully subordinate. And that’s the operation right now is the asset stripping pace.

Peace in the Middle East and the New World Order

SIMON DIXON: There’s a positive side to that. Okay. Because peace in the Middle East is something that we’ve never witnessed in our lifetime and I believe we will witness, which has consequences. It means that Asia gets to rise with China and Africa might actually get to use its resources.

So we need to settle Sudan, Yemen, Libya, all the other previous wars. And they’re currently being negotiated with the financial industrial complex which has said, right, the military, we’re going to exit, but what are you going to give the banks?

And the banks are saying, right, what we need to do is we’ll send ISIS into Syria, we’ll pretend that we’re protecting the Christians, create some crazy narrative, will put the head of ISIS as the president of Syria. He can come to the White House, we’ll legitimize him, which is the Gulf country and Turkey’s selection, and then we’ll lift sanctions, but only on these conditions.

And so right after Giuliani met with Trump in the White House, Trump went and met with all the banks. They started constructing their 40 year land deals in Syria. They started front running everything. They started divvying up the land between all the banks and financial institutions.

And the Gulf countries and the financial industrial complex get to basically have regional stability and the military will exit and the finance is negotiating what the terms are. And so why do they need to do that? Because there’s only two countries which have birth rates right now, Africa and the Middle East. The rest of them, they ain’t having children. They need robotics and AI.

PETER MCCORMACK: What is the role of Bitcoin in all of this? And it’s captured.

SIMON DIXON: Okay, so Bitcoin to me was, to me it’s a boycott. If you want to boycott the Federal Reserve, then you have to own money outside the system. Gold or Bitcoin are two ways of doing that. If you want to boycott BlackRock, you have to own it in self custody. Most people can’t self custody gold so they end up self custodying Bitcoin. Or they can do self custody gold in the small scale.

If you want to boycott the banks, then you don’t mind fiat currency. By custodying your Bitcoin and borrowing against it and being a part of Howard Lutnick’s treasury companies and Bitcoin backed loans and all the different s* that Michael Saylor and everyone’s creating, they’re trying to centralize as much Bitcoin as possible within America.

They’ve got over a million, they’ve got a couple of million Bitcoin now in their constructs. So whatever happens to Bitcoin, they’ll be fine. BlackRock managed to centralize as much as possible. Strategy is subordinate to the financial industrial complex.

PETER MCCORMACK: Hold on, is Saylor the equivalent of Dorsey? That’s why he thinks the 0% loans.

SIMON DIXON: Strategy’s mission is I will get as much Bitcoin in this public company as I can. Borrow or I can sell equity. Who’s he selling it to? The financial industrial complex. And they’ll construct debt instruments on what used to be equity instruments so that you have obligations that supersede.

And the only way to pay your dividend or pay your debt is to either sell Bitcoin or borrow more or sell more equity. That is full submission to the financial industrial complex. And then when we’re ready, rather than destroy you or send you into chapter 11 like Celsius and others, we’d much rather have you as a tool, centralize as much Bitcoin as you can.

Get as much of it as you can. And we’ve got a lovely tool to manipulate the short term price to Bitcoin. We can get it where you have to sell it or we can issue corporate debt. And if you take on corporate debt, it comes with massive terms and conditions.

And eventually, if you’re a good person, Saylor, we’ll manufacture the media narrative that gets you into the S&P 500. First we want more debt, we want more equity in there. And then once you get into the S&P 500, you’ll get our passive flows and we can use media in order to manipulate people.

And then we’ll create another 121 capital tether. Jack Dorsey. Sorry, not Jack Dorsey. Jack Mallers partnering with Howard Lutnick. Howard Lutnick is as deep state as you can get. Like he’s involved in all operations.

And then you can roll up, strike, get people to borrow against their Bitcoin custody as much as possible. We’ll create multiple operations. We’ll get the media side of Bitcoin. David Bailey, you come over here. What about the developer side? Adam Back, you come over here. Put your Bitcoin in our treasury.

Companies partner with these stablecoins. 2015 Jeffrey Epstein tried to penetrate the developer community. We’ll release some files on that and we’ll get as much of the Bitcoin mining away from China and over to America. And then what we’ll do, we’ll make them public companies and then we’ll create a ETF and we’ll manage the passive inflows.

So that was their operation. To centralize as much as possible. As long as we have nodes, miners and self custody then we can opt out. But the short term price is captured.

PETER MCCORMACK: Now do they need, does it require people like us to self custody run node for it to have value for them to be able to control it? Like if it was fully centralized, would it lose all its value?

SIMON DIXON: We are in a mission. The fight is not over. I am still here for a reason.

SIMON DIXON: Yes. And we cheered it on and we got really excited. And Trump, congratulations. You fooled them all. And what did he do? He rewrote the law to say we can confiscate Bitcoin and send Samurai Wallet into prison.

So we’ll come after self custody. We’ll launch as many shitcoins as possible. We’ll create the Stablecoin Genius act where JP Morgan gets to create the Federal Reserve, collateralize it by stablecoins. We’ll give them an edge by having yield. And we’ll update the executive order where you can confiscate as much Bitcoin as possible. We’re still Bitfinex’s shareholders.

SIMON DIXON: I’m one of them. I’d like the Bitcoin back, thanks. And instead Tether’s sitting around the White House rebuilding the ballroom. And the crypto lobby is integrated into the financial industrial complex. And all the people that were on this mission suddenly integrated into BlackRock and the complex.

PETER MCCORMACK: We’re not in. We’re not in. Exactly.

SIMON DIXON: But once you know, you know that’s a good thing.

SIMON DIXON: That’s true. But also he might be 100% right. It all sort of adds up.

SIMON DIXON: So we have a battle ahead. Which is that…

SIMON DIXON: Wait, what you lose no matter what is it to like where’s your fight?

SIMON DIXON: I think you lose. Okay. I’m realistic. The realistic battle is there will be a two tiered Bitcoin. Most people will custody Bitcoin. At the moment about 70% don’t. 70% of the Bitcoin. All of those, remember those massive Bitcoins we sold? All the old wells are selling.

I got no evidence for this but I’m pretty sure that these are the Peter Thiels and various other operators that were engaging in the market manipulations.

PETER MCCORMACK: Oh, you think all those big… Because it’s all of a sudden a lot at the same time.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah, complete speculation. Got no evidence for it. But I believe that some of those old Bitcoin wallet addresses are controlled by early operators. And I do believe that Bitcoin came from intelligence, but it open sourced which meant it was irrelevant.

SIMON DIXON: I do think that Len Sasserman and Hal Finney and their funding and working with David Chaum—I do think it was an offshoot and this is why I think this is interesting that we’ve got off the UK and gone on to Bitcoin quite a lot. Yeah, f* it. Yeah.

PETER MCCORMACK: It’s an Easter egg for the old listeners.

PETER MCCORMACK: There are a few by the way.

SIMON DIXON: Okay. Where was I going? Where we end Bitcoin.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah. I think it created an open source offshoot. Here’s what gives me—and here’s what if your goal is to think that wealth redistribution gets solved and Bitcoin is going to suddenly make everyone and all the mini people and everyone—that’s not going to happen, I don’t think.

SIMON DIXON: It won’t solve wealth redistribution. It will save as many people that are willing to listen and take action. I personally believe, and I believe as many people need to be in self custody running nodes, there’s going to be a certain percentage of the network that needs to remain on that mission and we still need—we’ve got a lot of work to do with that.

But there is a reason why I live on an island. Because the British colonizers needed escape valves for elites when they want to leave. And so you allowed Cayman Islands and you allowed Isle of Man and you allowed Jersey and Guernsey and all of these different places to exist. You allowed Swiss bank accounts to exist because the rich and wealthy want them.

And so the rich and wealthy want Bitcoin in self custody, but they want you to put your Bitcoin in their custody. Because they want to lever it up and they want to create derivatives and they want you to have margin calls and they want to take as much of your Bitcoin as possible in their custody. And so they will do that and they will succeed to the vast majority of people.

Motherf*ers. Yes, but just don’t mind the fiat currency against your Bitcoin. How do we be so, so sorry? You don’t lose and you win by playing the game as your only choice. You kind of have to play the game. I have not found a way of beating the financial industrial complex and they got as much Bitcoin so that whatever happens with Bitcoin, they’re going to be fine.

PETER MCCORMACK: So you have to become part of the evil?

SIMON DIXON: No, you have to boycott the evil by holding it in self custody, which if you hold it with the BlackRock Bitcoin ETF and you borrow against it, then you’re part of the evil. And that’s the part of the evil by doing that. Because the majority of people won’t be able to.

PETER MCCORMACK: You have to have something, you have to live.

SIMON DIXON: Yes, but if you do that, you do that knowing 70% of people won’t do that.

PETER MCCORMACK: Well, then we have to educate them. You know what we should do? We should start a Bitcoin podcast. We could call it What Bitcoin Did.

SIMON DIXON: And I filmed another episode on that.

SIMON DIXON: I don’t know. But here’s the thing.

SIMON DIXON: I don’t believe wealth redistribution. So firstly, you have to decide where you’re going to live. I believe that this is the decline of the West. I don’t think anything stops that train. I think it gets worse. I think Europe gets worse, I think UK gets worse. I think America gets worse. If you own assets, you’ll have the best time of your life. The rich are going to be fine.

PETER MCCORMACK: It’s time to get the f* out.

SIMON DIXON: Yes. Now you can escape to islands or you can go join a country that for the very first time in history is going to be decolonized from the British American empire. And for them it’s going to be great. This is going to be the first time in millennia that Africa might be able to use their own resources.

PETER MCCORMACK: Yeah, I might not go to Africa just yet. Although I quite like it. Yeah, quite like it.

SIMON DIXON: Asia, I think, is going to be great for all of them.

PETER MCCORMACK: There’s some of them I’m a big fan of Thailand. I was looking at properties in Thailand recently.

SIMON DIXON: They look quite nice. Yeah, the ones they’re very vassalized into BlackRock like anyone. So the tariff policy had three impacts. Firstly, it wiped out all of the small business in America because they paid the tariff, they couldn’t afford it. And so they got mergers and acquisitions up to the large companies. It was like Covid for that. So you wipe a small business, you hoover them up into the large multinationals. That was impact one.

And then obviously that leads to somewhat—we haven’t seen too bad inflation but systemically inflation is about 3% in the U.S. It seems like it’s going to stay there but for the—you just created another tax. Here’s the scam. There’s a movement around right now. This is a live campaign, right? Hold on, let me go. I’m jumping too much. I’ll finish the three thoughts and then I’ll get back to tax.

So that was the first one. The second one is the export dependent countries got pushed up into the same companies as well. So if you’re in Vietnam and you’re subordinate and you got wiped out and consolidated up as well. And that’s why we had BlackRock and China negotiating all the ports, all the different trade routes, all the Gulf countries. That’s why we’re seeing—it appears like it’s World War Three. I don’t think it is World War Three. This is a massive, massive change in the world.

PETER MCCORMACK: Right. Is this part of the reason why Russia wanted Crimea and parts of Ukraine because they wanted access to those ports?

SIMON DIXON: So there’s with Ukraine and Russia there’s like a win-win game with Russia and the financial industrial complex. The longer this goes on for the better it gets for them. They get more land and BlackRock gets more resources and they make more money and they subordinate Ukraine and they kill more Ukrainians for their profits. Yeah.

SIMON DIXON: Let me finish your point. Yeah. And then so this is the rise of Asia. I think Asia is going to have massive growth. I think Africa is going to have massive growth. I think Middle East is going to have the highest growth and I think the global south in general, the rule of thumb, the closer you are to America, the worse it will be. Okay, so if you’re Central South America, if you’re Europe, you are fully subordinate and you are a playground for military profits.

PETER MCCORMACK: How long do you think we got?

SIMON DIXON: I don’t know how to answer that question because I’m going to go back to tax but I think that brings up an interesting one. Currently the financial industrial complex are in charge but there is a new thing called I guess this One World Government Orwellian 1984. One Central Bank Digital Currency type of conspiracy theory.

The data centers and the energy are in the Middle East. America’s got the software and the hardware and China’s got the manufacturing base. Africa’s got the labor. I believe that BlackRock would like to consolidate that all into a massive control grid where maybe, just maybe money doesn’t really matter because everyone’s on some kind of UBI. This is where we’re going into the 10 year, 20 year prediction. I don’t know what the world looks like in 10 years.

PETER MCCORMACK: Can you get a chart up of the US debt? I want to see it as an actual chart. Because it’s pretty hockey stick, right?

SIMON DIXON: Yep. And that’s the British Empire right there.

PETER MCCORMACK: No, that’s US. 238 billion trillion. Yeah. 156%. Okay. World War II.

PETER MCCORMACK: Just go to Google Images and just search for US debt.

PETER MCCORMACK: Yeah, these are one of the ones. Right. So like actually go over to the left. See that newest. Yeah, that one. Right.

SIMON DIXON: So like at some point it just—

PETER MCCORMACK: Can’t work anymore and then you’re done.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah. So what you’re seeing there is World War II.

PETER MCCORMACK: That, that, that, that, that, that, that.

SIMON DIXON: Then you have Vietnamese war. Yeah. Then you have Iraq, the fall of the Soviet Union. Then you have all the Middle Eastern wars and the fake war on terror. You have bank bailout, you have long term capital management bailout of the hedge funds. You have global financial crisis bailout of the banks. You then have Covid which is massive concentration into the technical industrial complex and the financial industrial complex.

And if you look at what is all of that debt it is interest, war, Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid. If you’re running those demographics right now, how do you solve those demographics? The UK looks a little bit similar. You need to try and make up for it through immigration or you do civil unrest and turn it into some kind of universal basic income but they’re—

PETER MCCORMACK: Milking the end of it. There comes a point where you can’t just keep rolling it over to the point where it’s useful as—

SIMON DIXON: Long as American GDP growth, which just printed 4.7% through fake all of these operations of Trump spending and more and more of it is government, as long as that is greater than the average cost of the debt, which is about 3.3%. So what’s Trump trying to do? He’s doing fiscal dominance, which means print as much money as you can and we’ll spend it into the stock market.

If the left get their way, then that’s social programs, which means the banks and the insurance companies get to manage more money and they put it where they want it. If the right get their way, then we put it into the technical industrial complex. Call it capitalism winning the AI war and we do it into military expenditure. So he just announced AI battleships.

SIMON DIXON: Yes, the Trump fleet. So you get all of that and then a bunch of it goes into Palantir, which is the surveillance state. So either way you keep rolling over. And then what he’s trying to do right now is monetize, which essentially means I’ll run the economy hot, hot, hot, hot, hot, hot. Push everything into the stock market. Screw everyone else. If you own shares, you’ll be fine.

And we’re going to put as much into the stock market and I’m going to roll over the debt on the short term. So he’s saying Fed, we’ll put interest rates down. And what’s happening to the long term interest rates, by the way, this is what’s happening in UK. The long term interest rates are getting more and more expensive, the short term interest rates are going down.

So he’s rolling over the debt with T bills while the market is saying hold on, this is not looking good. If I’m going to lend to you for 10 years, I got to pay more. That’s crashing the price of bonds while increasing the yield. And he’s just running the economy hot. That is the emerging market, end of cycle type of actions.

SIMON DIXON: And then they just go to the east and restart.

SIMON DIXON: So then, but what will they do? Well, what they need to do is do what they did to UK. You shrink the currency into a regional currency and you manage just a series of asset stripping stock market growth. So if you look at the UK, the economy is shit, but the stock market’s at all time highs.

PETER MCCORMACK: I know, I know. And then fing Labour say look, we’re doing a good job. Yeah, f off.

SIMON DIXON: And so they all say the stock market’s at all time highs because it’s mass corruption.

PETER MCCORMACK: Hold on. And to pay for this you have to eviscerate the middle class. Yes, yeah, that’s it. That’s a good.

PETER MCCORMACK: You’ll get wage compression between the working class and the middle class. And the middle class will be destroyed.

PETER MCCORMACK: And nothing stops that train. As Lyn Alden says, you can keep your welfare program going.

SIMON DIXON: You can just keep everyone just ticking over. Yeah.

PETER MCCORMACK: And you keep it going until the last bond won’t be bought.

SIMON DIXON: That’s it. So hope is really cope.

PETER MCCORMACK: Yes. Well, actually what is cope? You have to firstly be an asset owner. That’s the only way. Yeah. You know, the stock market. My game. Which it comes back to my point though, what’s wrong about it?

SIMON DIXON: You have to play the game. Yes, but I personally, personally for me, I wouldn’t invest in Palantir stock and I wouldn’t buy S&P index because I don’t want to support this shit. Yeah, but investing in any asset, you are supporting this shit. You are realizing this is how it works. And I have to do this.

PETER MCCORMACK: No, you have to live. And so you’ve got to.

SIMON DIXON: Thing is all those people will get left behind and that’s fine.

PETER MCCORMACK: But we already knew that anyway. We already know. Yeah, but that’s been as long as time.

PETER MCCORMACK: But your choices are jump off a cliff. You’re not allowed to do that because I need you around. Secondly, it’s go, okay, what part of the system am I willing to be?

So for example, if we wanted to stay in the UK, we could pay off the mortgage. We could put a little vegetable garden in the garden. We could buy our meat from the local butcher. We could play part of our community and we just exit the financial system as much as possible. That means Bitcoin or gold or whatever. You can’t not. You have to drive on the road and you have to use the Internet. You have to do part of it. Or you go and live in a country and just buy a ranch and live off grid.

SIMON DIXON: Boycotts work. I’ve been involved in the anti-war movements before I was involved in Bitcoin and when the Malaysians decided that they weren’t going to go to Starbucks, and I’m going to Starbucks here because they were supporting Israeli settlements and their profits went down, they had to overthrow their CEO.

This is the important part. The real money, the real vote is your money. And so you vote with your money. Yeah, you have to spend local. Now look, it’s not perfect. I need AI. I need an iPhone.

PETER MCCORMACK: You know, Venice, you could use Aerovoise. Venice, that.

SIMON DIXON: But that’s the key thing you have to become. You’re never going to get this perfect. The perfection is an evil, is an enemy here. Yeah. You need to every week just like the right advice with Bitcoin. I think you always said this as well. It was own more Bitcoin this month than last month. That was always the right advice.

Be better. Boycott more this month than last month. And so be more conscious. Are you supporting, am I investing in a global machine or am I investing in my local football club, my local community? Am I doing private? This is why I think it was really interesting what you were doing, Peter, because you were going local and you were just recognizing that. Investing local, supporting local, buying local.

PETER MCCORMACK: Yeah, but I gave up most of it. Yeah. Because everything I did suddenly became political. Yeah. And I got attacked in every direction.

PETER MCCORMACK: Yeah, the machine was too big. And I was like, okay, well, I need to stop worrying about local stuff because actually I can’t change things. You know, we were going to open this pizza place and we canceled it because we can’t make any money. There’s too much tax, too much bureaucracy.

PETER MCCORMACK: So we was like, well, we need to go to the national levels. I was like, at the national level, I can have influence. I’ve got touch points with various MPs and various political leaders. I can influence that. And then, you know, maybe I’ll become an MP. But I was like, well, become an MP. I don’t want to become part of the state.

And now we’re at this point where, well, I say we, I, in a day, I built a website called inolongerconsent.com and I did the Twitter profile and I just sent everything. I don’t want to be part of this, but maybe that is a decentralized movement. Say, I’m not going to be part of this.

PETER MCCORMACK: You know, this is what I’m going to do. I’m going to buy local. It’s a bit more effort, but we’re going to go and shake the hand of the local farmer and buy a steak from him. We’re going to go and buy our fruit and veg from the local farm. We’re just going to stop using all of these motherfuckers. We literally will only support local privately owned businesses and farmers, put all our money in Bitcoin and just, that’s what we do. That’s our boycott or we just go and live in the Cayman.

SIMON DIXON: I completely agree with that. And you know, we become more and more conscious about our supply chains. You know, we think, whose honey are we buying here?

SIMON DIXON: Yeah. But you know what the funny thing is, even I’ve known you for a long time, but even if you were a mad conspiracy theorist, your solution is still something we should be doing anyway.

PETER MCCORMACK: Because the best case scenario is just there’s just massive corporate interest which we know exists and we know there’s corporate lobbying and we know they create this kind of moat around their businesses where us as an independent coffee shop is f*ing hard. Right? It’s really hard.

Whereas if you’ve got a thousand Starbucks, you can centralize your accounting, you can centralize your HR and you can offshore your profits. We can’t do that. Right. But we can create such a good product that enough people come.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah, exactly. And you know, the reason Starbucks is Starbucks is because they subordinated to the financial industrial complex. They took the compromise and they engaged in laundering money in the directions that meet that prop up the empire, whereas the local coffee shop is not doing that.

So I completely, you know, the more decentralized we go, the better. And that has both a spiritual benefit. I believe personally, in my experience, every time I’ve done something which I think is pretty questionable with my money, it’s blown up in my face. Every time I’m intentionally and directionally allocating my money to things that I think make the world a better place, it’s multiplied for me many times over.

So I do think that there is a spiritual energy behind money that if how it is achieved. And even though there are these big evil empires, these are the, you know, look at these industries. They are all being exposed right now. Whether it’s the rap star, whether it’s the Hollywood. You know, these people are depressed, addicted to drugs, engaging in massive degeneracy. These are not happy people, you know.

PETER MCCORMACK: Some of them, some of them is fun.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah, well, we saw the yacht, didn’t we? We looked at all the yachts parked up at St. Barts. All the billionaire yachts take this as mission.

PETER MCCORMACK: It comes back to what is end goal for them? Do you just get a bigger and bigger yacht? Is that it?

SIMON DIXON: It’s maintenance of the system. This is systemic. There is no one on top. It’s not an organized cabal. If you look at, I know when people say Jews are on top of this whole thing, I looked at that, I did a whole blog post where I just wanted to debunk it because everyone said it.

What everyone does is they point, okay, there’s a bunch of executives that are Jewish. Fine. What’s an executive? Well, an executive is a manager that works for a board. Okay, well who does the board work for? Well, the board works for the shareholders. So who are the shareholders? Well, that’s actually the global wealth and that changes.

And then I looked at the last study and 55% of global wealth is those that call themselves Christian aligned, 36% atheist aligned, 8% Muslim aligned, 6% Hindu aligned and 1% Jewish aligned. So that’s global wealth distribution. So of course there’s a very small number of them, 16 million relative. So are they punching above their weight? Absolutely. Are they punching above their weight?

But who is actually achieving all of this wealth? Well, you say, well, they control the banks, they control the media. Well, no, that’s not actually accurate. What happened to the banks? The banks are public companies. The banks own the Federal Reserve. So you say they own the Fed. No, the Fed is owned by the member banks. The member banks is owned by the banks. The banks are public companies and they’re owned by the asset managers. Who’s the asset manager? Large sovereign wealth funds and your money that’s being pulled into ETFs.

PETER MCCORMACK: So this is just a very, very large, complex set of incentives.

SIMON DIXON: It is profit maximization with zero ethics in a finite game. And countries that maintain their sovereign wealth, they can play an infinite game. It’s a bit like Bitcoin. Bitcoin is an infinite game, but if you then take Bitcoin into an options contract and create a derivative of it where it has to be repaid plus interest on a certain day, you created a finite game with your Bitcoin. Now you have to become a speculator.

PETER MCCORMACK: And a trader and get the price right.

SIMON DIXON: Whereas if you were just playing the infinite game, you just buy it every month and you don’t care about price. This is, you know, the whole time preference conversation. This is the whole, this is why you have to have, you know, the minute I figured out how this system worked, I had to leave the UK. I was, you know, I couldn’t do what I wanted to do.

And that was a 10 year timeframe from 2015 to where we are 2026 today. You know, to figure out what I needed to do to kind of incrementally get where I could opt out from the system. And now I have no debt. Live in a country where it’s illegal to borrow, you know, opt out of the system, contribute to decentralization, local farming, local, you know, and that’s where that’s the real one. There’s a couple of process at the moment.

PETER MCCORMACK: Quick, quick thing. Do you think owning property here in the UK is a fool’s errand?

SIMON DIXON: I think that the game has changed where property is just a mechanism for rolling up into the financial industrial complex and becoming a debt slave. And 50 year mortgages in the US is another iteration.

The game that I played and it just works for me is that I was broken in debt, I had a mortgage, I was trying to create a business. I avoided Silicon Valley just because Bitcoin worked in the right way, avoided going public because I sold the company to Coinbase in the end, but I didn’t have to get entangled into any of that. And then I paid off my debt and now I don’t owe anyone anything.

And so the more you can avoid debt, which I know is a radical thing because most people just are not, that’s not going to happen. But the new game is to essentially you have to own an asset. And I don’t think real estate or property is a game that most people can do. And I think actually right now that’s an institutional game.

PETER MCCORMACK: Whereas Bitcoin, you can buy 50 pounds of it and self custody it.

PETER MCCORMACK: So if someone’s listening right now and they’re like, I’m f*ed. But they’re not wealthy and they are, they’ve got kids in school, they’re kind of trapped. They can’t just leave the country, but they just want to have just the best life they can have. And that’s the basic life. They can afford their food, they can have a holiday, they’re not miserable.

What advice would you give? Because there’s other people who can exit easily and there’s some that just can’t. I mean, they’ve got family time. There’s so many reasons that tens of millions cannot just say, I’m leaving. So what advice would you give to them?

SIMON DIXON: Yeah, let’s look at the different boycotts. Right, so you’ve got civil unrest, but…

PETER MCCORMACK: The boycott is saying, I don’t, I f*ing hate the system. But there’s also survival.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah, absolutely. And yeah, it becomes down to reality in the end. So you’ve got, firstly, if you don’t own any asset, this is going to get worse for you. So you have to make your decision. Either you’re going to be leveraging into real estate if you can. Either you’re going to be borrowing a bit, owning a bit more Bitcoin every month. Either you’re going to do the gold silver game or you’re going to be playing the game into the stock market.

But you will not, your life will get worse and worse and worse because wages are not going to suddenly start outperforming the market.

PETER MCCORMACK: Did you see I wrote an article yesterday? No. Dig out that 4chan post.

PETER MCCORMACK: Oh, you’ve got it in your thing. So me and Connor were planning a show for the end of the year and we were talking about all the different subjects and we’re sat in a Soho hotel and Connor digs out this tweet and he sends it to me. And there’s, it was like I wrote an article about inflation yesterday, but my version of inflation is like the naive, childish version of the story you’ve told.

Like, it is that if you haven’t got assets, you’re f*ed and the money always goes upwards. It is that, but listen to this.

“There will be no collapse. The way some of these people think of it, it’s not going to be like the movie Dawn of the Dead or whatever, where one day suddenly shit hits the fan, prices skyrocket and everyone begins to riot and the SS comes marching down the street to kill everyone. There will be no happen. It’s far more insidious than that. Read the poem The Hollow Men by T.S. Eliot and you’ll understand.

You’ll just notice that every day simple things will get a little bit more expensive. Everyone’s homes and apartments will get smaller. Your work hours will get longer, but your pay will decrease. You’ll see your family and friends less. And you’ll find that in time you care less about them. Every day you’ll find yourself lowering your standards for everything. Work, food, relationships, job security will no longer exist as a concept.

You’ll notice that houses, apartments, shrinking. People will start hanging onto clothing longer and longer. Less people will get married. Even less will have children. People who engross themselves in technological distractions and fantasy while never truly experiencing the real world. Whatever dream people used to have about what their lives were going to be will become for them a distant memory.

The only thing left for them will be the reality of their debt and their poverty. And every minute of every day they will be told, you’re stupid, ugly and weak, but together we are free, prosperous and safe. That is the collapse, the reduction of the American man into a feudal serf incapable of feeling love or hate. Incapable of seeing the pitiful nature of his situation for what it is or recognizing his own self worth.”

And so Connor sent me that and I read it and what was it he said?

SIMON DIXON: You like the most beautiful and devastating thing I’ve read. Yeah.

PETER MCCORMACK: And it was like f. So we made a show about, I was like ranting about inflation and fing elite wankers. And then New Year’s Day I woke up and I hadn’t had a late night drinking. So I just went and sat in my coffee shop and just wrote, wrote and wrote. Wrote this article, what was it called?

SIMON DIXON: This is the way the World Ends.

PETER MCCORMACK: And that’s part of that poem. Right. And I just wrote a thing, just mine. Like I looked up what my dad’s salary was when in the 70s. And it was like, I don’t know, that first house he bought was like three and a half times the price. So I went on Rightmove and it’s about the same. The aircraft engineer salary now is about the same as what Connor owns.

Sorry, Con and Connor would love to buy a house. And I looked up where my dad bought his four bedroom detached house and I went on Rightmove. Same like equivalent budget, three and a half times nothing. So then I looked up what a four bedroom detached house would cost. The cheapest one in the area. Not as good as my dad’s. £385,000. So more than 10 times that. And I was like, f*.

But the really interesting thing about that I was reading, I was like, this is miserable. What were they on about? Like, this is what’s happening now. And then we looked, what’s the date of the 2013. It was actually posted in 2013.

PETER MCCORMACK: And I was like, this is like, even if you’re wrong, this is still happening.

PETER MCCORMACK: Like we are destroying millions of people’s lives slowly. Just, just, yeah, little bit of chip about, you know, it’s one budget here or it’s a price up there. And it’s now kind of school. Four private schools. I now can’t take kids on holiday or I now can’t move my, like little by little we’re destroying we. I say we collectively. I just mean the world is destroying people’s lives. Yeah.

And I, this is the only time I go, well, the communists have got a point. I disagree with their solution. But they are actually identifying the same problem that we identify their solution. But it’s so f*ing sad, Simon.

SIMON DIXON: It is sad. Firstly, I completely agree with every word that was said there in terms of where this is going. And there’s no way of sugarcoating that because it’s reality. You can’t put, you can’t put together a plan to win unless you know the rules of the game. So I’ve tried to outline what I believe the rules of the game are, but you can’t.

PETER MCCORMACK: But actually, sorry, sorry to interrupt because I’m, yeah, it’s like what Connor said, it’s like, yes, actually. The way to play and win the game is yourself. You can’t collectively, you can’t defeat this. It doesn’t matter how much I want to create a people’s like, it’ll be infiltrated, they’ll start violence, they’ll throw me in prison, they’ll embarrass me.

Like there’s something that will stop that happening. You, you, you as revolutionary, you want to be as, as passionate as you are. You think I want to end this?

SIMON DIXON: They’ve got a plan for the revolution, which is a technocratic nightmare, a digital ID. So you have one option.

PETER MCCORMACK: Well, they can’t stop. What can they do to 40 million people who go, I’m going local.

SIMON DIXON: Exactly. There’s, there’s nothing they can do that now. One, one thing that’s interesting. So there is a campaign, although we can’t afford it. Is your, is your algorithm telling you that all the Americans are going to stop paying their tax in the moment?

PETER MCCORMACK: I’ve seen some of that, yeah. And people have talked about that here as well. Yeah, it’s much harder here because of PAYE.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah. Okay, let me, let me debunk that one. What is tax is not to pay for goods and fund the government.

SIMON DIXON: It serves three functions. The first thing is it creates demand for the currency. And so by paying your tax in pounds, it creates demand for pounds. But when you pay your tax, the government is not funded by your tax. The government is funded by money printing.

PETER MCCORMACK: Yes, this is what the MMT guys say.

SIMON DIXON: Exactly. And when you pay your tax to.

PETER MCCORMACK: Control inflation, right, it controls inflation, it’s disinflationary.

SIMON DIXON: And so when you print the money, you create inflation. And by paying the tax, you contract the supply. So it’s disinflationary. So it’s just a mechanism for controlling some of the inflation and creating demand for the currency. Some of it, you create the illusion that you’re paying and you’re going to make it work.

But it’s a debt based Ponzi scheme, so you can’t, you can’t repay the debt. When Elon said we’re going to repay the debt. He was engaging in giving people delusion that you can pay the debt. But is this why there are so.

PETER MCCORMACK: Many mechanisms for rich people to not really pay tax?

SIMON DIXON: Yes. Well firstly the rich don’t pay the tax. There’s so many mechanisms because they want it. And that’s why they’ll allow Bitcoin and self custody as well. Because they want it.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah. And so not paying your tax is sadly inflationary. Yeah. There is one that breaks everything. And if people actually said I’m not paying my rent and paying my mortgage that breaks everything.

SIMON DIXON: That breaks the banks. That one works. But.

PETER MCCORMACK: But what will their answer be? They’ll have.

SIMON DIXON: Well, their answer be will be the pre crime surveillance day Elon Musk Social credit score Peter Thiel AI Pre crime agenda powered by a stablecoin by David Sachs and the CBDC by the European Union.

PETER MCCORMACK: So the real winning is not a revolution that will be crushed and won’t happen. And the real I do not consent isn’t us mass not consenting to somehow get a government that we believe is strong. The real I not consent is just playing outside the system as much as possible.

SIMON DIXON: Agree. That’s all I know how to do.

PETER MCCORMACK: Oh man, we’re going to have a fun journey home Con, aren’t we? Connor’s going to be like let’s move somewhere hot. He’s probably right.

SIMON DIXON: And yeah, maybe move to a country with a game that’s played differently. Like there is not wealth destruction, remember? Look what happened to the British Empire. We’ve just had shit growth ever since World War I. We shrunk the currency from a global world reserve currency to a regional currency.

They’ll do the same with the dollar, I don’t think. They may break something, but it will be slowly. Like we lost 7% on the dollar relative to foreign currencies. Almost 100% on gold and silver. And they’ll keep doing that. So they’ll keep shrinking the dollar into a regional currency.

PETER MCCORMACK: Boy, don’t be pessimistic. The way to think about this is I know the game. I know how it’s being played. I look after me, my friends, my family and do the best I can.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah, that feels selfish, but that’s altruism. No, but remember the decline of an empire is the rise of other powers that have been oppressed. By the sounds of it, they have control of the new empire as well. Actually, I disagree. There are forces in the world that maintain their sovereign wealth. They’re just moving their assets from the west to the east and they’re going to start again.

As long as there are countries that don’t have a Western central bank and keep their resources to build a sovereign wealth fund, those countries will be able to use those resources for their people and move closer and closer to less tax and low capital. The thing that you need to capitalism, communism, socialism, even Austrian economics is all bullshit.

There is a country and you have resources and you decide how to use those resources and you decide what is the optimum setup to make sure you’re not externally controlled or sovereign.

PETER MCCORMACK: What are your two scarce resources that.

SIMON DIXON: You have access to currently? Yeah. One you’ll get, one you won’t.

PETER MCCORMACK: I think I’ve talked about this a lot.

PETER MCCORMACK: No, that’s not scarce, that’s infinite. With AI, what scarce resources do you have?

SIMON DIXON: But I lost it all in a boat.

PETER MCCORMACK: Yeah, well, we can get some more. What’s the other scarce resource that you own? It’s your time, okay? Your time is a scarce resource. The time you have, you’ve got likely more than me. I might have another 30 years. Hopefully you’ve got 60, 70, right?

So the real altruism. Altruism could be giving money to people, but a real altruistic life now would be using your time to help as many people as possible to see this and create a better life for themselves outside of this. And so that’s not selfish. Taking your time and being altruistic with it is, is an incredible and beautiful thing you can do.

We tried it. We just played the game wrong locally. So that’s the positive side. We’re going to, yeah, we’re going to be altruistic with our time. We should start a Bitcoin podcast.

SIMON DIXON: I didn’t get my yacht. I think it might work.

SIMON DIXON: I can never get my yacht without being evil.

PETER MCCORMACK: You know what? Getting the yacht through being part of this dirty bullshit is just not worth it. None of it. This is the thing about money, right? It’s like my thesis of money is very simple. It’s like you don’t want to be broke because that sucks, right? If you have to, you don’t need a lot to be happy, you know, debt free. Owning a property somewhere and being able to afford your shop and have a holiday. You don’t need a lot chasing the yacht.

How many miserable motherf*ers, how many miserable rich people are there? Loads of them. P. Diddy wasn’t happy. He had to have all these weird parties and he’s still not happy.

PETER MCCORMACK: Like having loads of money doesn’t really make you happy.

SIMON DIXON: You think there is something in the ignorance is bliss.

PETER MCCORMACK: Where do I always say my happiest time was my happiest year?

PETER MCCORMACK: When I was running I stopped work for a year. Just went running for a year. Yeah. Like proper Forest Gump. Nearly every day I would run 10 km nearly every day and a half marathon a week. And I’d listen to books and I’d meditate and I was, I was thin.

PETER MCCORMACK: I was f*ing great. I was so happy. It’s the happiest time of my life. Money didn’t do that. Is putting on a pair of trainers every day and having no bullshit commitments. Yeah, yeah.

SIMON DIXON: So we’re going to have a, we.

PETER MCCORMACK: Have a chat on the way home.

PETER MCCORMACK: It’s good, man. This is one of these shows that feels negative but certainly positive.

The Fall of Empire and the Rise of New Opportunities

SIMON DIXON: Yeah, it’s, it is a self reflective thing because the fall of this empire, which is fundamentally captured by evil, is the opportunity for other regions to rise and remember what we’re experiencing now. For centuries those same tactics have been used all around the world and now they’re just coming home.

SIMON DIXON: But do you know what the really.

PETER MCCORMACK: Interesting thing about this is? If in connecting the dots, you’ve connected dots that don’t exist and say you’re wrong, say you’re wrong about 9/11 and the war in Ukraine, Russia, what’s happening is happening anyway, okay? And even if you are wrong, the choices that you can make to lead a happy and fruitful and prosperous life are still the same.

Because even if, say you were wrong, it’s still good to buy local, it’s still good to go to the farmer. It’s still good to not be part of the banking system. It’s still good not to spend your entire life in the rat race, which is everyone knows is miserable. It’s still good to spend time with your family and go for walks and touch grass and sun your balls. All that stuff is still f*ing good.

And so, so whether you’re right or wrong, it kind of doesn’t matter because that is the answer for a happier life, I think.

PETER MCCORMACK: Chasing the money is not, it’s a myth, it’s a scam. As long as you get over the basic hurdles. We’re going to, we’re going to have a fun journey home, aren’t we, Con? Simon, thank you for doing this. I think I could see us doing something again very soon. Yeah, yeah, I can see us in. There’s a lot to think about here, man.

PETER MCCORMACK: We should definitely do a Bitcoin podcast.

PETER MCCORMACK: All right, Simon, thank you so much. Thank you, everyone, for listening. See you soon.

-   Transcript of IVF Pioneer Robert Winston Interview on TRIGGERnometry

-   Transcript: Mike Glover Interview on Doomsday Prepping – Tucker Carlson Show

-   Transcript of Richard Werner: Greatest Fraud In Human History – Peter McCormack Show

-   Transcript: World’s First AI Actress Interview on Piers Morgan Show: ft. Tom Conti, Tom Bilyeu & Prof Jiang

-   In Vivo Podcast: w/ Cathy Tie and Prof. Jiang on Editing Embryos (Transcript)

-   Transcript of Bill Ackman Interview: All-In Liquidity 2026

-   Transcript of Bill Ackman Interview: Holy Grail of Investing Podcast

-   Transcript: President Trump Hosts a Hispanic Heritage Month Celebration

-   Transcript: The Inescapable US China Rivalry – John Mearsheimer

-   Transcript: This Is Trump’s Best Leverage in China Talks – Grant Newsham

Our mission is to provide the most accurate transcripts of videos and audios online.
