Who Really Runs the World? w/ Simon Dixon (Transcript)

-   January 21, 2026 4:22 amJanuary 21, 2026 4:22 am

[Author Simon Dixon’s interview on The Peter McCormack Show, January 9,]

Here is the full transcript of The Peter McCormack Show: w/ Simon Dixon on Debt, Power, and the Global Financial System, January 9, 2026.

Brief Notes: Western democracies look chaotic from the outside, but in this long-form interview Simon Dixon argues the apparent disorder is actually a highly structured system built on debt, asset extraction, and control of capital flows. Peter McCormack and Simon unpack how modern money is created, why governments function as leveraged balance sheets, and how citizens end up as collateral in a global debt machine. They explore the rise of asset managers like BlackRock, the role of the IMF and World Bank, and why wars, bailouts, and inflating stock markets all serve the same financial incentives. The conversation then turns to what this power structure means for ordinary people’s freedoms, living standards, and the case for Bitcoin as a form of boycott and survival strategy.

SIMON DIXON: All good, Peter. I think last time we spoke was when we were either in Hong Kong face to face and then we did a podcast with Bill Barhydt. I think that was we—

PETER MCCORMACK: It’s strange that this is the first time we’re doing this in person.

PETER MCCORMACK: After all these years, it’s not even a Bitcoin joke.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah, that’s wild. I’m sure we’re going to talk about—

PETER MCCORMACK: Actually I’ve just seen the price is back over 90k.

PETER MCCORMACK: It will dump 5k again, surely. Yeah. I don’t even know where to begin. I mean, I was listening to this Dominic Cummings interview on the Spectator Gove’s show and he was talking about the complete dysfunction of the state, the absolute dysfunction of the state. Why nothing works, why everything breaks and why nothing can get done.

And there’s like half of me is that it’s just a dysfunctional state and then half of me, there must be some vested interest somewhere in that this doesn’t work. And whilst that happens, all the poor and the middle class just get poorer. And there’s a group of people on yachts, like I don’t know what’s going on. Tell me.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah, okay, where do we start? All right, well, let’s maybe do some structural things and then we can look at the big issues in the UK. But I think people have a very misguided understanding of what I call power dynamics, like who’s making decisions and what is the role of the state and the government.

From all my research, the state and the government are a battering ram to take blame for the fact that they are a piggy bank in a Ponzi scheme that needs to reallocate finance to where their lobby wants it to go.

Okay, so what does that actually mean? Well, firstly, you start with the monetary conversation, which is how we first met, which is the pound. And fiat currency is fundamentally a Ponzi scheme. What does that mean? That every single pound that is created, it started with a $1.2 million loan between William Paterson and the King of England.

And that loan was a perpetual loan that had perpetual interest. And they gave a monopoly on the creation of the pound to the private banks, which the Bank of England was at the time. And so with that structure, which is exported globally around anyone that subscribes to this model, you have a problem. Where is the money to repay the interest if every pound is a debt?

And you soon realize that, well, the money to repay the interest doesn’t exist. And so you have to find someone else to take on another loan in order to repay the interest on the money that doesn’t exist. And so structurally, that is how the pound is created, how the dollar is created.

And so you have a number of consequences to that. The first is you treat every consumer as an asset. You try and get them in debt, you treat every corporation as an asset. And those corporations, they can either get access to zero percent loans, which is at the highest level of power the closer you are to a central bank or you’re a small business and you pay—well, you don’t get a loan for a start because they’d rather lend it to the consumer for a house that isn’t going to run away.

Or, you know, you pay the highest level of interest, whether it’s 30% on a credit card or a payday loan at the consumer level. And so the corporate debt market is really for the highest levels of power. And the small to medium sized enterprise doesn’t really get the loans unless they’ve got some kind of cash flow type of thing.

And then the third one is the most obvious one, which is the government. And so when the consumer debt, when the consumer goes bankrupt, you restructure it and put it on the government’s balance sheet. And when the corporate has significant influence and significant control, they tell the government how to spend the money when they take on the debt.

And so you end up in a situation where people think that what we have in the west is capitalism, but what we actually have is socialism for the corporation that can get the cheapest interest rate and access to the money printer and the rest get capitalism. But that capitalism is fundamentally in a game where we have this concept of the K-shaped economy.

And the K-shaped economy means that if everyone’s trying to take on the debt and roll over the debt, then most people lose that game because the people that can access the 0% money can leverage that money to get the assets and the rest become an asset because they go deeper and deeper into debt.

And because this scheme is structured as a Ponzi scheme and the interest doesn’t exist, the rich fundamentally become the class that own the assets and everyone else just becomes the assets that’s paying all the interest.

This is so interesting because on the way over I was listening to Tucker Carlson and he was doing an interview with Adam Marblestone. Is that it? Is that Adam? No, sorry, apologies. Does it seem to say so it’s “Gold, Crypto and the Debt Crisis and How to Survive When the US Needs a Bailout.” Who’s the guest? Hold on, let me just try and get the name of the guest.

Anyway, but this guy, he’s a guy who does sovereign debt refinancing and trade. Sovereign debt. And when he was explaining it, he was saying, “Well, we go to a country, we speak to the people who manage their debt and we speak to the IMF and when they’re going to get the next tranche and the likelihood.” But he’s like, “But they always get the next tranche. That’s the business of the IMF.”

And so eventually they get that tranche. And we know they do. We help—Coleman Church. Coleman Church.

PETER MCCORMACK: Oh, Coleman Church. And he was like, “And then we help trade their debt around the world.” And I was thinking, hold on a second. And I’m only early in the interview and I’m wondering if they cover this. But like my little simple brain was going, well, you see, if they need an IMF bailout, they’ve obviously blown their country’s debt.

If they’re on a second tranche, they’ve obviously blown that. And so who keeps buying shtty—like, who’s losing? Where’s the loser in this? Because somebody’s got to be losing. If there’s corruption at these third world countries at the state level, where they’re basically taking the money and just pssing it up the wall and then they get another IMF bailout, who’s losing? Yeah, because someone’s got to be losing.

SIMON DIXON: Well, the answer is they only lose when you can’t roll it over.

SIMON DIXON: And if you can roll it over, then whoever’s receiving the interest continues to receive the interest. And inevitably, who receives the interest? Well, it’s actually the bank that can create the currency.

And so we have this separation between central bank and government. And right now we’re headed into what is called a monetization phase, where essentially you’re using the government to stimulate the economy and you’re trying to get as much debt out there as possible.

In order to sell that debt, you can’t actually go directly to the central bank. You actually have an investment bank that creates those products, those bonds, and then the bank is able to purchase them as a primary dealer in an auction. And you get a pretty complicated process. But in order to have it where you don’t have the central bank buying directly from the government, you put the bank in the middle and they have a license to create that pound.

And so they actually create the money to purchase the gilt. And as long as the debt can be continually rolled over and then you expand that out at the international level, and now you get into the real game of power dynamics.

And the first thing to understand is that this system was created in England. So it’s interesting that we’re going to be discussing UK today because it was our creation. We copied bits and bobs from Amsterdam. They had the Dutch East India Company, which was the private corporate interest, and then they had the Amsterdam Central Bank.

But we created this loan mechanism to fund wars. And that was 1694. Now, once you have that set up, you need the government to continually take on more and more debt. And the way to do that is you need to try and get a productive asset at the end of that debt, because you can keep rolling over as long as the government, as long as you’re building your capital.

And so the British Empire created this concept of mercantilism. And mercantilism was essentially, all right, well, let’s create the best military industrial complex, the naval fleet. Let’s create a private corporate interest which was the British East India Company. Let’s create a mechanism for the government borrowing the money, and then let’s create a mechanism for funneling it back into the private corporate interest.

And what would the private corporate interest do? Would do colonialism. If it meant, okay, let’s get all of China’s silver, let’s get them addicted to opium and build a bank called HSBC. Or let’s go to India, let’s steal all their gold, get all their tea resources, commit a famine and make them fully subordinate to the British pound.

And then we can use that as the base layer to continue the debt based Ponzi scheme. But eventually the corporate ends up with all the assets and the government ends up with all the debt. And so the end result of that was the rich get richer, the poor get poorer. This K-shaped economy, what we’re experiencing right now.

And then the corporate class, the investment banks, they go find another country to do it to and in this case it was America. So you had World War I, the Federal Reserve Act, income tax, everything repeated itself. What we did with the Bank of England and what was after World War II, you had Great Depression, confiscation of all Americans’ gold.

You had a pump and dump scheme in order to redistribute the Roaring Twenties, Great Depression of the Thirties, you had World War II and then you set up the IMF, the World Bank and you forced the world because they had the manufacturing base, the military industrial complex and all the gold that came from British colonialism, mercantilism, Germany’s gold, Russia’s gold.

After the Bolshevik Revolution, 75% of the world’s gold ended up in the Federal Reserve. And it was the same people that were funding all of those, the Soviet Union, the creation of the Federal Reserve, the Reichsbank, the Warburg families were both on the Federal Reserve board and the Reichsbank, the German central bank’s board.

And so you have this scheme that ends up with all the assets and it always transitions to the corporate, the most influential corporates ending up with all the hard money and all the assets, the government ending up with all the debt and then a new world order in order to reset where you’re going to do the experiment next.

PETER MCCORMACK: Right. So, but it’s okay with the government to have the debt because they’re not people as such. And it’s great for the corporate interest to have the assets because they are people essentially at the end. Is that correct?

SIMON DIXON: Well again it creates that K-shaped economy. So you’ve got a debt based Ponzi scheme, a mechanism for getting the best access to finance, which is banking. In fact the banks, they get to create it, the corporate class get it at the cheapest rate and then you use that in order to control government. Government becomes the piggy bank and then yeah, the compensation is that they create some jobs.

PETER MCCORMACK: But is this run by a group of lizard people or is this just organically how it works? What are the interests that know exactly what’s happening and they’re pulling the levers or is it just an organic system?

SIMON DIXON: I think it’s changed over time and it’s very fluid. So let’s take the current iteration, which I would say, where are we today? The UK, the European Union, Australia, Canada. The collective west is fully subordinate to US corporate interest.

And so our governments and our central banks are piggy banks and their job is the Bank of England and the European Central Bank need to find a mechanism for printing more money and the leaders need to find a mechanism for spending that money. And that needs to go up to pump the US stock market and a little bit of UK and European stock market.

PETER MCCORMACK: Because if it doesn’t and the US stock market collapses, everything collapses.

SIMON DIXON: Well, it’s because they’re fully subordinate and in control by the lobbies. And so if you want to make it as a politician, you have to receive your lobby financing and you have to agree to what you’re going to do for your corporate sponsor.

PETER MCCORMACK: So is this when Larry Fink comes over and has a meeting with Keir Starmer?

SIMON DIXON: Oh, absolutely. So you know Larry Fink, again, he’s not the top of the chain. He’s the manager of BlackRock.

SIMON DIXON: What is BlackRock? BlackRock is today, I’d say it’s not as centralized as the Dutch East India Company or the British East India Company because they had a monopoly. BlackRock doesn’t have a monopoly, but it has $12 trillion of assets and it has a special relationship with both the U.S. Treasury and the U.S. Federal Reserve.

So during COVID it was telling Treasury how to allocate money and during the great financial crisis, it was telling the Fed how to manage that process and which companies essentially BlackRock and JP Morgan should acquire, which one should go down, which one should go over and what assets to transfer.

That technology that BlackRock created because it’s got access to all the data is used by most central banks, most money managers, many governments, many Treasuries. And so through technology and the fact that it’s managing about $12 trillion of assets, it’s the most significant player in allocation of capital.

And then you have, it’s not the full thing because you’ve got State Street, you’ve got Vanguard, you’ve got about $30 trillion of assets. And then you’ve got the foreign sovereign wealth funds as well, which are countries that co-invest with BlackRock.

But then you look at, and this is where we get to the power dynamics of today and we’ll try and bring it all back into real things on the ground that are happening in the UK now. But once you have these asset managers, what are those asset managers? Well, they are the recipients of everyone contributing to their pension, everyone paying their insurance premiums, and all money managers that are essentially looking for passive investments.

And so through this structure of these managed funds like ETFs and various other products and unit trusts, in the case of the UK, they get the ability to become the largest shareholder by holding your shares for you, for all the pension funds, for all the different pools of capital. And with that comes the proxy voting rights and the ability to put a board. And so BlackRock has 20,000 board seats across most of the public companies.

Now those public companies, they need access to capital because we don’t have a free market stock market today. The state of the stock market today is that because we’re at the end of a debt cycle, I would say in the U.S., which has consequences everywhere.

So you have these different pockets of corporate power, and I think this is where it helps people understand. Underneath those 20,000 board seats, if you want access to capital, you have to essentially have a relationship with the investment bank that made you public. And I used to work in investment banking, so I’m very familiar with how these different types of structures work.

Most people think of, let’s take Tesla, for example. They think of Elon as the richest person in the world that must have a lot of power. And to a degree he does. But the job of the investment bank is to make him subordinate to what I call a financial industrial complex, which is if Elon wants to acquire companies and grow, he has to get a loan from the bank and he has to co-invest with the Gulf sovereign wealth funds.

And by borrowing against your stock and using that stock as collateral, the markets get to change the price of stock because they have access to all the products and manipulate markets. And so by this mechanism you create, the executives are kind of subordinate to their capital allocations and capital needs.

And through this you can manipulate many, many different things. Like ESG was an example. You can dictate the flow of capital, saying in order to get this capital and to pay this rate, you have to do these following things and meet this score. And so this is the most powerful force, I would say, in the West, not the world, in the West is the financial industrial complex, is access to capital. BlackRock’s the most important node there.

PETER MCCORMACK: So I remember when he bought Twitter, large percentage of the investment came from Gulf states.

SIMON DIXON: And so, hold on, actually we’ll get back a step. So his subordination is that through rather than a tap on the shoulder, it’s more like the rules of access to the capital.

SIMON DIXON: Okay, so originally the early British American empire was military industrial complex had the most amount of power. Under military you have what we call the deep state today, which is just the CIA, Mossad, MI6, all that type of power. Because they get Pentagon budgets, the intelligence can escalate wars and the military companies, their stock price benefits, the more wars you can go in.

PETER MCCORMACK: Hold on, that’s military. So do you look at the Ukraine, Russia war with an entirely different lens than everybody else?

PETER MCCORMACK: Explain to me the lens you look at that war through.

SIMON DIXON: Okay, so when I look at the Ukraine, Russia war, I look at it as, who is the ultimate power? Well, it’s the financial industrial complex that represents the U.S. stock market and U.S. GDP. That’s the current power structure of the West.

Now if you’re BlackRock and you’re managing your portfolio, then you’re starting to think about some of the demographic issues in the UK, U.S., low birth rates, where the next profit’s coming. All of these different parameters which we can outline and go down right to the micro of how it affects us. But you have a spreadsheet of effectively managing these different demographical issues, geopolitical issues. And you say to yourself, right, well what is the 10, 20 year plan? How are we going to manage this portfolio?

PETER MCCORMACK: Our country is part of a portfolio.

SIMON DIXON: Absolutely. This is what people need to understand. When you install a Western central bank and you privatize your resources, your oil, those are the two requirements of an IMF loan. You have to take on excessive debt, you have to install a Western central bank and you have to privatize your resources.

Once you privatize your resources, you become a debt based Ponzi scheme and you take on U.S. loan. The West or the Brits and now the Americans or the American financial industrial complex has all the tools they need in order to manage your country as an asset.

PETER MCCORMACK: It makes me think, you know when you watch one of those sci-fi movies when the aliens come and they just suck everything up, that they want all the resources?

SIMON DIXON: Yes. Because they’re rolling over the debt based Ponzi scheme. They have access to the financial industrial complex tools. They can create a currency war. If they want to destroy your wealth, they can laden you with debt which they can roll over. They can use intelligence and military in order to destabilize your country, turn genuine riots into color revolutions, take away somebody that represented the people and install a dictator that takes the corrupt money in order to privatize all their resources and make sure that Chevron, Exxon, Lockheed Martin, General Dynamic, JP Morgan, the IMF, all can come in and use your country as an asset management portfolio.

PETER MCCORMACK: So if I was secretly planning a revolution in this country, a people’s revolution, to get rid of the government because they’re completely f*ing incompetent and maybe institute a new codified constitution, restore proper democracy back. Am I going to end up arrested or killed or there will just be another powerful force ahead of me?

SIMON DIXON: Well, there’ll be a multi-purpose operation. So the military industrial complex and the deep state or the intelligence, they will find a way of infiltrating that and turning it into violence. And so they’ll take what could be a peaceful process and start killing people and turning it into something that can be weaponized, a narrative.

The financial industrial complex, they’ll come along and they’ll start planning what assets can we acquire on the cheap. So we’ll put, if they’re public companies, then we can do an M&A deal. We can profit from volatility and if they’re a private equity house, then we can buy it through a distressed vulture capital deal. So the more distressed your country gets, the more assets we get to acquire and roll them up through M&A into the ultimate power structure which is hosted on the U.S. stock market.

At the same time the technical industrial complex, so there’s these different complexes, they’ll be thinking, okay, this is a great way to manufacture the algorithms and fear in order to get everyone on the technology we want them to be on. We can then progress our pre-crime agenda, we can progress our digital ID, we can progress our central bank digital currency. We can progress our stablecoins, we can progress our getting people at home using algorithms and talking online rather than talking in person.

So they’ll come up with, whether they create it or engineer it, depending on how conspiratorial you want to be, they’ll weaponize it. And so you have a multi-pronged. And now what does BlackRock, they’ve got the military industrial complex, the financial industrial complex, the technical industrial complex. What else do they have? What else do they make public? The media.

And so you can use your media as a tool to prop up the other portfolios. And when you want to crash markets, you use derivatives, you hedge your bets, you go and conquer wars. If that war fails or succeeds, you’ve got a strategy for both.

SIMON DIXON: It’s a win-win, whatever. So this is a structure. So let’s get back to that original question. How do I look at the Russia Ukraine war?

So there is a fairly sovereign country called Russia. And by fairly sovereign I mean it’s not a central bank that’s subordinate to the Bank for International Settlements or any of those forces. You had a failing Soviet Union, you had Gorbachev that was there to manage the fall and transfer the assets over to the oligarchs and elites in Russia.

Those oligarchs and elites were infiltrated in order to privatize as many of Russian assets, install a Western central bank that becomes a member of the Bank for International Settlements and also privatize its oil. So what did Putin do? Well, Putin arrested the oligarchs, kept the nationalization of the oil and then the media. And I’m not saying this, please don’t…

SIMON DIXON: Putin’s not. Look, none of these people are good. They’re acting in the interest of their own power structure in their own country. Now Russia has a different power structure. There are oligarchs but it is fairly sovereign and independent because it has its own sovereign wealth. It has its own, it’s not running massive trade deficits.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah, it’s got its own currency. And so when I look at that, right, so that’s how Russia is. What else do you know? If you’re a global institution like Apple, you’re saying, well, I’ve got my factories in China, I’ve got my consumer by debt in America and the West, eventually, is that consumption going to dry up because everyone’s in debt. Where are we going to find our, where is the next market that we’re going to be able to go to? And China’s basically got its own policy and its own power structure.

But let’s get back to the West. What is the power structure of the West? So you’ve got, Ukraine is 100% color revolution. Zelensky works for, I’d say he’s aligned with the military industrial complex faction of America. And so what is his job? And so Keir Starmer as well. Keir Starmer, he’s aligned with all factions. So we’re just fully subordinate.

In UK, we’ve had bad growth ever since World War I, essentially. And so Keir Starmer is fully subordinate to the financial, technical and military. But his job is to create the narrative to send money over to Ukraine that then goes back into buying weapons on the UK stock market. But most of it goes into Lockheed Martin, General Dynamic, Raytheon as a tied loan.

And then they use, they structure it and the collateral is done via the World Bank. And then BlackRock is essentially issuing the money with a government guarantee and they can end up with the Ukrainian assets. So in the end, when you do this operation, you essentially do a color revolution. You install the leader that you need in order to do this operation.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah, a comedian. You create a media narrative that backs up the justification where we’re saving democracy. You have NATO, which is a sales machine for Lockheed Martin, General Dynamic Raytheon, Boeing, all of the different companies, and their job is to increase the revenue of these military companies.

And so Ukraine was the perfect way of doing that. You pretend you’re defending democracy. You have a boogie monster called Putin, who’s a good boogie monster if you want one. And you start to have a bigger strategy. What is the strategy? Well, we want to fully subordinate Europe. That was the strategy.

So the war between Ukraine and Russia was not a war between Ukraine and Russia. It was a war between the US financial industrial complex and Europe. And so you use your leaders, you install your Macrons, you install your Mertzes, you install your Starmers. And their job is to create an acceptable narrative for the people of why you’re stealing all their money and spending it on US corporate interest. And that’s your job. That’s the war.

PETER MCCORMACK: Okay, so going down this rabbit hole, how much of this is conspiracy and how much is this is you like, oh, this is just how it works. I know now. Yeah, like are you 100% this is just how it f*ing works. I know, I’ve seen it.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah, I’ve spent 25 years on this and I’d say I know. What am I source? So I read a book a week. Yeah, I’ve worked in all the industries. I’ve been in business, I’ve been in investment banking, I know how trading works. I’ve been in all of the 25 years of my life did economics. The masters worked doing monetary reform, trying to change the government to change the system in the UK.

Left the UK because I tried to create a bank. So this is 25 years of my life of following the money. And it needed a couple of things to put the final pieces together. We needed WikiLeaks, where you can get all the declassified documents that you can use to back up and many of the declassified CIA documents.

So if you read a book, for example, Covert Regime Change, it will go through the 100 covert operations, how they fund terrorism, USAID is the mechanism, how they control the media, how you go back to corporate interests, you can find there’s been 100 operations since World War II. And then they stop at a certain point because we’re going to find the next set in 20 years from now. But this is to me 100% how the world works. And so yeah, when that’s how I look at what is happening.

PETER MCCORMACK: But the world therefore has to work on a basis of evil.

PETER MCCORMACK: But if profit maximization requires you to start wars and send young men to front lines to die to create demand from the weapons companies, it requires evil. And if it’s a system that requires you to extract hope and opportunity and wealth from the large majority of people to trickle upwards and transfer the assets to the riches, it is evil.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah. And I think everybody knew that the British Empire was evil, but they are just about to figure out that the American Empire was just as evil.

PETER MCCORMACK: And so with China and the Belt and Road Initiative, is that essentially their version of this?

SIMON DIXON: Is their version, but it’s built upon a fundamental difference.

SIMON DIXON: Well, they want to. So they have the world’s manufacturing base.

SIMON DIXON: They have partnership and access to resources and they would like to find demand for their product. And so America and the British Empire’s model was eliminate competition, allow Africa to ever use their resources. We’ll just steal it all. We’ll create groups like M23, M13, we’ll have proxies to steal all their resources. We’ll create ISIS, Al Qaeda in the Middle East, whatever we need to do.

And so the Middle East was fully, you can see it all around the world. China was a victim of it. They had their 100 years of shame, their century of humiliation, which led to them coming up with this 100 year plan where they are now. And if you look all around the world, you’ll see that the tactics that you find appalling that are currently coming home, by the way, they’re using the tactics on ourself because they got another plan.

They funded every genocide, every ethnic cleansing campaign. You can tie this to pretty much every war in the world over the last 100 years. And I did that exercise of figuring out what interest it served. But is it evil?

SIMON DIXON: So I use game theory. I’m a bit, you know, in economics with game theory. In game theory you have two types of games. You have an infinite game, which is where you can really think long term. That’s what China’s doing. And then you have a finite game. And what a finite game means is that you put a time deadline on an action.

And so if you look at the US stock market, it is structured around three month gains. You have to meet your goal in the next three months in order to gain access to the next level of capital, to have your stock price not destroyed, to gain access to the index funds and to be on the right side of the money printer. And if you do what you are meant to do for the financial industrial complex, everything rolls and everything ticks. You get access to your passive index fund, you get money printing and you get media that kind of gives you the narrative that’s needed in the Financial Times.

And in US politics, you have a four year election cycle which breaks down into two years midterm election. So you have two years to prove your utility to your backers. And you need money in order to be in the game. You also have to be compromised. That’s what Epstein was. You can’t rise to the top unless you’re compromised because we need to mutually guarantee that all of us won’t spill the beans on each other.

SIMON DIXON: The higher you want to go, the more compromised you have to be in this game.

PETER MCCORMACK: It’s part of the argument of why Trump has not delivered on everything he promised is that he can’t because of his backers.

SIMON DIXON: Trump, in my perspective, doesn’t control the Epstein files, the military industrial complex and the CIA and those forces do.

PETER MCCORMACK: But even Doge to an extent, whimpered out, it was a useful exercise.

SIMON DIXON: And whimpered out Doge was a data mining exercise because Elon is an important network of the technical industrial complex. His job from my perspective, is to build the social credit score. That’s what his job is. He’s providing all the data sets for the social credit score under the guise these people are DARPA funded, this is CIA intelligence funded. Their business requires Pentagon budgets, it requires government funding, and he is leveraged to the eyeball, even though the richest man in the world with his stock fully subordinate to the financial industrial complex. And so he has to do what they say, he has to comply.

Trump is, if you look at his background, I mean, he made money in real estate in New York. That’s the Jewish mob, the Italian mafia, the real estate tycoons. He was mentored by Roy Cohn, he was married into the Kushner family. The Kushner were the original Epstein blackmail operations. Charles Kushner, which Trump pardoned before Epstein. So there’s always been an Epstein. It was Meyer Lansky, then it was Roy Cohn and Charles Kushner, then it was Epstein. And there’ll be the next one as well.

There is no way in hell that one person could be as networked as Jeffrey Epstein was. That’s a multi century network of contacts. And he was manufactured into this Bear Stearns billionaire financier. His job was to compromise. And that’s, I think, you know, that’s at the intelligence level, whether it’s Mossad, CIA, MI6, maybe Five Eyes.

SIMON DIXON: Maybe all of them, yeah. But he would be serving US corporate interests now. Remember, US corporate interests, they also go via these different corruption proxies. So if you want to do something that’s really, really illegal, like a genocide or ethnic cleansing, then use your Israeli proxy and then the money comes back into. So you do the illegal shit over there.

You have all these cybersecurity AI, like surveillance technology, like Palantir’s building genocide as a service in Gaza, occupation as a service, genocide as a service in Gaza. What they are building in Gaza. Have you? Not if you read the plan of what they’re rebuilding in Gaza. The Tony Blair plan, by the way. Nonetheless, with Jared Kushner, funded by MBS Saudi money, it is going to tokenize the land into a shitcoin. It is building data centers for Elon, it is building the mass surveillance Orwellian 1984 nightmare.

And Palantir, which is the company that’s going to be powering it and powered the genocide as a service and the occupation as a service and the integration into drones in Ukraine and crowd control in Saudi Arabia during Hajj and the pre-crime agenda in the UK and the surveillance state across Europe that is monetizing and weaponized immigration policy in order to manufacture civil unrest.

PETER MCCORMACK: So, okay, so let’s talk about the immigration across Europe because it’s very unpopular. The scale of it is unprecedented. No government has seen to want to or be able to deal with it despite the fact that it’s publicly unpopular. So this has been manufactured.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah. So I mean, look, if you’re looking. So firstly, all politicians are compromised and subordinate to this network, this financial industrial complex.

PETER MCCORMACK: So should I, if I wanted to see it and I became an MP, would I see it or would I not realize I’d become subordinate?

SIMON DIXON: You would be. Firstly, you wouldn’t rise. Firstly, you’d need access to funding. Then when you need access to funding, you’d be hanging around with the different networks you need to hang around in order to access that funding.

PETER MCCORMACK: But I’m known in Bedford. I could go as an independent, have a chance of winning. Throw a few hand grenades in.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah. So at that level, you’re probably not important enough. If you want to rise, you got to do it in a party. Then you’re going to have to be compromised to get further up the chain and they will compromise you. You know Keir Starmer, if you look at, he was all connected to the sex trafficking with Julian Assange and various other operations. Like, you know, you can go back into. Like everybody has the compromise that they don’t want to come out and then they leak it out. And as they leak it out, that’s basically saying, stay on track to where we’re going to be going.

PETER MCCORMACK: So all those stupid things I’ve done in my life are on a database somewhere?

SIMON DIXON: Yeah. I mean, if you’re using ChatGPT as a therapist, then you’re creating your blackmail operation in your Orwellian 1984 future.

PETER MCCORMACK: I’ve been conscious of that for the start. So beyond it, calling me babe, I think we’ve got.

SIMON DIXON: All right, even X. Right. Like we went from. Okay, so we had Covid. We had censorship, and then suddenly we came back with the free speech platform. X. Right. So we watched Jack Dorsey, which. You cannot run a platform like Twitter without giving intelligence a backdoor. You know, the network, you become Twitter because the network allows you to become Twitter. Right.

SIMON DIXON: These are not organic things that happen. Like these technologies are all DARPA funded, utilized, that you make a Faustian bargain. The deal is. Look, you have this Pentagon budget. The big beautiful bill Trump just announced, there’s $1.3 trillion and a $5 trillion debt ceiling. And if your politician complies, they pushed that money up to your corporate contract. Palantir gets some, Elon gets some. And this is the gradual mechanism. And if you don’t comply, you suddenly, Elon can come out and say, “Hey, Trump, you’re on the Epstein files.”

PETER MCCORMACK: So I’m aware that Israel, I think, has bought 13 Israeli companies, have bought 13 VPNs. And obviously my son’s in the room and neither. He doesn’t watch pornography. And I don’t. But if I happened to. If I was one of those people of. Connor was one of those people who watch pornography, they probably have a database of that as well.

SIMON DIXON: They probably do. Yeah. Yeah, I know exactly what you’re searching. I already know what you’re searching for.

PETER MCCORMACK: Yeah. So like. So they’ve probably got a vast database of everyone’s kink in the world as well. Yeah, yeah. Which is a great way to control somebody.

SIMON DIXON: Absolutely. This is the future we’re walking into now. This is interesting because when you go through that natural progression, perhaps with a.

PETER MCCORMACK: The thing is, right, if all this is true, you can’t fight it. There’s zero way.

SIMON DIXON: Well, then we get to solutions. If you want to go, you just have to kind of play the game the best you can.

PETER MCCORMACK: Let’s come to solutions. Let’s end on a white pill because you know what it’s going to be and I know what it’s going to be. We have the text conversation on the way and I think I know where it’s going to be.

So when you look at Venezuela, basically they just want the oil.

SIMON DIXON: Okay, so let’s look at Venezuela. So Venezuela, firstly, it was subordinate to military industrial complex, financial industrial complex, IMF warfares, color revolutions like the Global South have been all subjected to this. And so in its current state, the most important thing is that Chevron and Exxon have control of the oil. They already do. They don’t need to do anything.

But who’s buying that oil? China’s buying it. And so where are they getting their weapons? Well, they’re getting their weapons from Russia. Where are they getting their drones? They’re getting their drones from Iran. So you’ve got a country that has aligned with the BRICS, let’s say a system that works outside the dollar, a network where you can do this.

But what is the problem? The problem is, normally if you thought of America as a sovereign nation, you would be thinking, no, that can’t be on our doorstep. But America is not sovereign. America is run by the financial industrial complex and corporate interest.

And so what do they say? Well, they say, well, we want more. America wants more GDP and Chevron and Exxon want more revenue. So we want China to continue buying the oil, but we want better terms. And so if you want better terms, and by the way, there’s a new discovery right on the border of Venezuela called Guyana, which is the largest discovery, then you pretend that you’re coming after the drug cartels.

The drug cartels. By the way, how does the deep state fund itself, the CIA, MI6, Mossad, they are funded by black op off balance sheet operations, which is human trafficking, sex trafficking, weapons trafficking, drug trafficking. If you want to stop drugs in America, then you need to have a CIA conversation because that’s how they fund their black ops. They have partnerships with the drug cartels.

And so if you want better terms on those, then what you need to do is you create a narrative. And so Trump’s job is to create an acceptable narrative for the American people in order to justify a negotiation that gets better terms.

Now, at the same time, we can kill you. Yeah, absolutely. And don’t be shocked by that. America’s been behind the American and British Empire have been behind hundreds of millions of deaths, like around the world. Like these are not organic events, these are engineered campaigns.

PETER MCCORMACK: And we also, I mean, you mentioned they got the Chinese addicted to opiates. And we also know in Afghanistan that they very quickly protected the poppy fields, allowed the drug trade to continue.

SIMON DIXON: Yes, but let’s look at Afghanistan. So Afghanistan people frame it as America failed. The joke is they spent 20 years to replace the Taliban with the Taliban and spent $2 trillion. Now that is unsuccessful if you’re a sovereign nation called United States of America.

But if you are a corporate interest, you made $2 trillion of revenue out of that war rebuild contracts. You also took a group called the Taliban which were fighting against poppy seeds and drugs and you replaced it with a new version of the Taliban that allowed the drugs to flow and you created a narrative that you were doing something different.

So the Taliban that we see today is not the Taliban that were fighting the drug trafficking. We’ve got America’s Taliban now. And you can see how the media narratives if you look via the NGOs USAID you see all the funding into BBC funding into all the different National Endowment of Democracy, all these different organizations. We call it foreign aid. That is essentially the blackmail operations in order to allow these things to do.

So what was Afghanistan? You managed to get the drugs flowing again. You got $2 trillion of revenue and you put a proxy version of the Taliban from a resistance version of the Taliban. Very successful operation. But who lost? The Afghan people lost and the American people lost. Why? Because that was $2 trillion that was printed to roll over the debt based Ponzi scheme.

SIMON DIXON: Yes, that was inflation. Now if you own the stocks, you were on the right side of that inflation.

PETER MCCORMACK: The rich get richer, the poor get poorer.

SIMON DIXON: Exactly. Everybody else is paying a higher price which means you need to borrow more, pay more. Credit card at 30% and you are the product for the bank.

PETER MCCORMACK: So how do you look at 9/11?

SIMON DIXON: 9/11 I got a four hour documentary that goes through the declassified document by the FBI and tries to reverse engineer the bits that were adapted based upon likely names from other cases.

PETER MCCORMACK: The copy and paste didn’t work in those ones. Did you see that in the Epstein files?

SIMON DIXON: Or maybe not. There you go. You know these are okay, we’ll allow them to discover this. That could be a red herring. You know that’s the thing. We are in psychological operations to confuse us as much as possible and point at the wrong things.

9/11 was okay, so you had a military industrial complex, financial industrial complex and technical industrial complex operation. So firstly prior to 9/11 you already had the clean break memo which was the seven countries and seven wars that America wanted to fight in five years. You had that already as a policy. You also had Patriot Act already written.

So Patriot Act was a mechanism for creating the word terrorism in order to remove the constitutional due process and be able to just at will justify these wars, remove due process in America and usher in the technical industrial complex progression. 9/11 was a very successful operation.

If you go into the declassified documents, the CIA were all over it. The Mossad was all over it. There was Urban Movers funded by Steve Witkoff, by the way, who is in the Trump administration now, which was a Mossad moving company that had bomb traces as one of the things that they were. They had access to 9/11 via the Art students Mossad operation.

These are not the conspiracy theories, these are the declassified documents, FBI documents in there. You had them detained for nine months and then you had massive pressure campaign to send them back to Israel and the laundering of the money, all the monetary flows happened via Saudi intelligence.

So you had CIA, Saudi intelligence and Mossad that were all involved in 9/11 and it solved multiple purposes. It could finance all of those wars. There was all the issues with the twin towers and the insurance payouts. You can go through all of that.

PETER MCCORMACK: Took out a new premium, what, weeks before.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah. So I think there was a $4 billion payout to Larry Silverstein, who was given the opportunity, an Israeli American, dual national, in order to purchase the towers and take out the first ever terrorist insurance contract.

You also had the two of the. You know, what they do is they give you all the crazy conspiracy theories. There was no plane and it was a remote control or it was all like it can, you know, they give you the crazy ones, drown out the genuine ones. And so you get pushed into that group.

But I follow like Ryan Dawson, who’s done some great documentaries like going through all this stuff and I kind of just put it in with the follow the money type of philosophy of how these operations work. But if you look at really the entirety of the $38 trillion debt today, it follows the Bank of England story.

PETER MCCORMACK: What time does the debt collapse? At what point does the debt collapse? It becomes unmanageable because it feels like there’s a combination of things, say here in the UK, in Europe and the US, which means things are starting to fray.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah. So the first thing to understand is that world reserve currency is what America has.

SIMON DIXON: And that’s the important part. Once you have the world reserve currency, you have the ability to continually print it, export that, and you can run these twin deficits, trade deficit and fiscal deficit. That is the government can spend more and you can export more than you know, you can import more than you export. That’s a requirement to have world reserve currency.

So you’ve got to roll that up. There’s a debt based Ponzi scheme. You’ve got to keep going as long as you can grow at a rate that is higher than the average cost of your debt, then you can continue the debt based Ponzi scheme. So there will be an average price on that $38 trillion.

SIMON DIXON: It is kind of MMT, but the banks get all the interest and the money. So MMT is better because MMT, you don’t actually pay the interest and you don’t give it to the bank, you don’t privatize it. The treasury receives the money and spends it and they receive the benefit.

And so under this model, if you look at China, the PBOC model is they have a state central bank with a bunch of commercial banks which are all state controlled. In general there’s a few private, but in general you’ve got state controlled local banking and PBOC. All the currency that’s printed goes back to the government and the government reinvests it in its own infrastructure.

Under the current model in America, the dollars are printed but the money goes to the bank. And then the bank is now using that money to do what? Firstly they become global and so they form alliances. They don’t have an America first agenda. An American bank is not America first, it’s a global institution that does deals with China, the Gulf countries, Russia and the world. And so there’s no America first.

And then what do they do with their profits? They buy the politicians and so the lobby, the financial lobby controls Congress, Senate, and then via the military industrial complex, you have the deep state. And then you can do the illegal stuff to bribe judicial and so you have the illusion of democracy.

And so what actually ends up happening then? When the banks take out too much risk, they socialize the losses and they privatize the gains, as we’ve seen. What does that do? That leads to a higher concentration of power. So knowing that the central bank and the government will always bail out, you just keep going until no one will buy your debt. Eventually somebody there won’t be the right market.

And so what does the Trump administration have to do? Well, BlackRock tells him what to do. Tariffs, reset the world order, make everyone trade with China, make everyone hate America. Deconstruct the deep state, which means you take away everything that propped up the dollar. Break the euro dollar by going nuts on Europe. Break the Japan carry trade, allow the Bank of Japan to put their rates up, break the petrodollar so that now 30% of oil is priced in yuan.

And what do we do? We compete. Start competing with the Gulf countries. So now America and the Gulf compete. China’s providing all the money for the sovereign wealth of the Gulf countries. So who do you think Saudi Arabia needs to answer to?

So what are they doing right now? They say, right, we’ll buy up all of America’s AI companies, we’ll buy up all of Europe, we’ll buy up all the real estate, we’ll co-invest with BlackRock. We’ll get a board seat on BlackRock. And so the Gulf sovereign wealth funds have partnered with the financial industrial complex because then the financial industrial complex is not America first, it’s a global institution by definition.

And so if BlackRock now wants to reset the chessboard, it can say Europe, you’re going to be a war zone. We can do some demographic operations, we can do all sorts of things to acquire the assets on the cheap. America, you’re going to be the data center, the AI hub. China, you’re sovereign, we’re negotiating with you.

At some point BlackRock will say we’ll reallocate some of our capital over to Chinese tech companies rather than American. But first we’ll asset strip everything out of America that we can. So let’s push the K-shaped economy to the extreme.

So what do you do? Say Trump, print as much as you can. Push all of that money into the US stock market. We’ll tell you where to allocate it. Get more revenue for the military industrial complex. Make sure that you’re pushing as much money into AI. Create a narrative that there’s systemic risk. China’s about to take over the world with AI if we don’t spend everything.

Recycle all of these contracts around ChatGPT over to Nvidia. Make sure that Nvidia has no bearing on reality, is geopolitically strategic. And then what we’ll do is you go and pretend that you’re negotiating tariffs with countries and we’ll just negotiate access to chips, access to revenue and we’ll start building all the data centers in the Middle East and we’ll start.

Every time you do a negotiation, you pretend it’s make America great again. We’ll just sell off all the stocks with Chinese money through Gulf sovereign wealth funds that partners with this whole financial industrial complex. And so we are in the asset stripping phase and the money’s moving east. The money’s moving east.

PETER MCCORMACK: So is that why Ray Dalio has moved all his money into Singapore?

SIMON DIXON: He prepared for this decades ago. You know, he’s on the right side of these investments. You know these people, they’re part of the financial industry. You know, if you want to own the West, you own BlackRock and that’s a public company. Don’t really want to own BlackRock exactly, because they are fundamentally profit maximizing in a three month game that requires them to meet the goal of this financial industrial complex. And they’re a part of it.

And even they managed, this is what the asset managers was really interesting. So they managed to get the banks that create the dollars in the first place. They managed to get the investment banks that securitize and financialize everything. They managed to get the private equity companies that can buy all the assets on the cheap borrowing from the government.

They don’t have the money. Silicon Valley doesn’t have the money. They just have access to the 0% money. They have access to the cheap capital. And then you have a bunch of people that can be these celebrity icon billionaires when really all of these major tech companies were just funded with government money.

And we privatized it all and we ended up with the board seat and we’re just asset stripping, asset stripping, asset stripping, asset stripping. And so now I think we asked what is BlackRock wanting to do now? And I say BlackRock, it’s decentralized power structure based upon who owns these asset managers. And that’s an interesting conversation in itself.

SIMON DIXON: The asset managers run the world. They partner with the sovereign wealth funds and the sovereign wealth funds are the ones that kept their central bank independent and managed to not privatize their resources so they don’t have to tax their people. So there’s no tax in the Middle East because as an alternative to tax they took all their oil, put it in the sovereign wealth fund and used it for their people and reinvested in their people.

And we’re told that’s socialism, communism, capitalism. And so what ends up happening is you create a narrative in America. And by the way, I did a master’s in economics. It was a long time ago. The bullshit behind these models, and again you ask yourself what is the university college system? Who created that? Who funded, who funds these syllabuses? Who determines what research moves forward when it just so happens that just like you can control a government, you can control an education.

PETER MCCORMACK: Well, we keep inventing new economic models or keep discussing new economic models that seem to justify government. We don’t seem to see any return to free markets.

SIMON DIXON: But why? Because the government is the piggy bank.

PETER MCCORMACK: Of course I know that. I know why. I know like every kid I meet now who’s going to study economics. Even my daughter wants to do economics at A level. I’m like, right, you’re going to be reading Hayek and you’re going to go and say to your professor, Keynes is bullshit.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah, but Keynes was close to the government.

SIMON DIXON: Oh, absolutely. Yeah. I mean, you know, he was Bretton Woods, too. Got the world to, I mean, he wanted to do what they want to do today, which is one world currency, and he wanted to create the bancor. In the end, he created the justification for taking the world off the gold standard, making everyone trade their currencies against the dollar.

And then the dollar said, I promise we’ll keep the gold and you can trade your Federal Reserve notes for gold. And then in 1971, after the Vietnamese War, when the French turned up with a ship and said, give me my gold, they just said, no, we ain’t got it, we ain’t having it, and defaulted. So America defaulted then.

PETER MCCORMACK: Oh, I thought they gave the French the gold back.

SIMON DIXON: Nah, they didn’t give it. I don’t know what happened. Maybe something happened after, but that was the default, and that’s when they came off the gold standard. So you can no longer convert.

PETER MCCORMACK: I don’t want to live in this world anymore.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah. I want to live in a world.

PETER MCCORMACK: Where I believe you can have a chance as a good person to go out there and democratically win elections and represent your people. It just sounds like we’re f*ed.

SIMON DIXON: Well, they sold us a lie. The whole democracy was a lie.

PETER MCCORMACK: And I know there’s special interests. I’m not that naive. But just to be this coordinated.

SIMON DIXON: Putting it all together just means, yeah, what do you do? What do you do? You can’t do anything. Your choice is basically go sit on a beach somewhere and forget about it.

SIMON DIXON: The first thing, like when you come to the realization, firstly, you can continue to engage in delusion. You can continue to believe that changing the politician will change something, or you can focus on the community level. So I do believe community politics makes a difference.

PETER MCCORMACK: We have talked about that. I mean, I’ve just, I have no confidence in Reform and Nigel Farage being able to change anything. It feels like it’s just a moment of capture, but also, you end up sounding like that crazy uncle at the Christmas dinner table. Oh, you can’t trust them. It’s all the deep state, blah, blah, blah.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah, well, that’s a psyop in itself. And, you know, I’ve been fighting that ever since I left investment banking in 2006. So that’s been 19 years. I’ve been told I’m crazy, and every time they tell me I’m crazy, I try to find some, you know, whether I am crazy or not.

And every time I go further and further down the rabbit hole, it turns out that I’ve been quite accurately able to predict things based upon following the money and ignoring politicians and ignoring media. And so while everyone is focused on media and politicians, once you realize that, okay, what actually does move the world? Well, money moves the world. So your money is your vote. And that’s the conclusion that I come to.

SIMON DIXON: The best you can do is boycott, you know, and go local and support yourself, your family and your community.

PETER MCCORMACK: And not put your head above the parapet so much that they want to disappear you?

SIMON DIXON: Well, there’s kind of two things that are happening right now. I’m long gone on that one.

SIMON DIXON: But there’s two things that are happening right now. So the next world order is, I believe, a multipolar world order. And at the same time, you talked about coordination. So most people, when they hear this, they think, is this some kind of organized cabal? It’s actually not. It’s a ruthless game of betrayal at the top, power dynamics and access to capital, and you can throw people off the network and then operations go wrong. It’s a ruthless game.

But what I’ve found most useful is to figure out who rules the world. I think I looked at who owns all these shares to try and answer that question, because inevitably, when you go down this path, there’s kind of a couple of narratives. If you’re online, you know, there’s a couple of narratives right now. You either, the Jews rule the world, or Qatar rules the world and there’s an invasion.

SIMON DIXON: And Muslims are taking over. Those are the two narratives. If you go on X right now, you can find a 24/7 space that will tell you how every single thing and every problem in the world is because of the Jews. And then you can go on the same space and they’ll tell you the exact same thing, but they’ll tell you it’s the Muslims, it’s the terrorists, it’s Qatar. And depending on how much time you spend, your algorithm will adjust to feed the narrative that backs up the hate and belief that you need in order to believe those two things.

PETER MCCORMACK: Well, I’ve started to notice the algorithmic tyranny recently in both YouTube and X. Weirdly, I’ve started calling it X. I always said I wouldn’t. I was calling it Twitter for it, but I know that X, it very quickly reconfigures yourself to the latest thing you’re looking at.

And so, for example, this week there was an interview between Andrew Gold and Steve Laws. Steve Laws is an ethnat, like just total ethnat, ethnic nationalist. And within three days, all I’ve got is ethno nationalist content or debates or arguments. And I just feel like that’s feeding me right at the moment.

PETER MCCORMACK: And then at the same time, we will make a certain kind of show and if it’s slightly controversial, that is then targeted at that group.

SIMON DIXON: And if you don’t agree with them, you get annihilated in the comments.

PETER MCCORMACK: So there’s like these kind of algorithmic biases being created that is forcing people also into echo chambers. Because you feel like I’m the weirdo. I’m not a racist. That makes me a weirdo at the moment. So, yeah, it’s a bit weird the way it’s happening.

SIMON DIXON: Destruction, anyway. Is it neither. It’s not the Muslims or the Jews. Yeah. I think we’re being compartmentalized into boxes right now. And so, if you’re like a white nationalist American, then you’ll end up in the Nick Fuentes box.

SIMON DIXON: If you’re like a Britain boomer kind of socialist, you’ll end up in the Piers Morgan type of box. If you are a Christian conservative woman that is discovering that they think Israel rules the world, you’ll end up in Candace Owen. And, if you’re a man, you’ll end up with Tucker Carlson.

And they’re compartmentalizing us into the box we need to be in order to radicalize us into our ideology as much as possible. And then they can use those algorithms in order to… I think the goal is, so let’s look at the bigger goal.

So I think BlackRock wants to split the world up into a multipolar world order. That’s the next empire. It’s saying the Gulf countries, you have your sovereign wealth. We’ll transition from the forever war model over to peace in the Middle East, which requires regional stability and investment in data centers and access to energy, including nuclear.

PETER MCCORMACK: It’d probably help then if you had a revolution in Iran.

SIMON DIXON: Yeah, I think my personal belief, and most people disagree with me on this, most people think Israel rules the world and Israel’s going to get America into a war with Iran, we’re going to do a regime change and then it’s going to be World War 3 and Israel is going to rule the world. That’s like the common narrative in the circles I hang around with.

I think it’s the complete opposite. I think Iran has already been regime changed and the IRGC are completely on board with everything that’s happening right now. So you saw that Hezbollah was taken out, you saw the Houthis have calmed down. You see the militias, by the way, also the stories around militias is completely different as well.

So like for example, I’m jumping around a little bit here. But if you look at Hamas, Hamas is located in Qatar Doha, because America asked them to be there. And the only way to get money into the Palestinian banking system is via the Israeli banking system. Or if you want to put cash in the border, then you have to do it via the Egyptian border.

The Egyptian border is subordinate to IMF. And most the biggest aid producers are Israel. American aid goes to Israel, Egypt and Jordan that surround that region. And so if you want to level the playing field and you want to rebuild a brochure called a technocratic Orwellian nightmare, then you allow something like October 7th to happen and you use media to make it look like it’s something different from what it actually was. And that is an operation that’s happened time and time again.

And so the whole militia side, you can look at Iran Contra affair to find when Iran was working with American intelligence, weapons trafficking, drug trafficking. You can look at Turkey operations, you can look at Qatar operations, you can look at all the different Saudi Gulf countries and you can see every single one of them took a different approach in manufacturing civil unrest, strategic tension, and never allow them to be around their resources.
