Chapter 1: The impact of AI and debt
I I think there will be rapid loss of jobs. Um I there's no chance that we're going to make up with new opportunities
for the amount of jobs that can be lost here. It's the middle class pinch. It's really starting to happen. Just the bloody pub over the road from me. We we four of us go for dinner. This is a pub.
[music] It's £200.
They do have a plan for those that own the debt. Um and that is that they are going to create the technology, the
stable coins and the central bank digital currencies that can either be issued through financial crisis as a
bailout and that is the programmable money of artificial intelligence that requires data and social credit scores.
If you want to not be that you will own nothing and be happy, you need to own something which is a key. The optimistic version is to be the asset owner, to be
building with AI, to be on the other side of the trade. Um, the vast majority will be on this side of the trade. And
so that is, I believe, the choice that everyone needs to make ahead.
Chapter 2: The US debt cycle
How you been? I'm good. I'm good. Should we talk about debt?
Debt? Should we talk about dude? Uh, we both hit, well, we I say we, the US and us just hit a, uh, a debt milestone
together. We, we hit three three trillion. Yeah.
The US hit 40 trillion. I remember when we were talking about 30 trillion being a crazy number. Yeah.
Now it's almost like no one gives a
[ __ ]
Yeah. No, it's absolutely rapid. Um, so it's really interesting. And also
watching the intersection between the US and the UK relationship as well, I think is really interesting. So, we got $40
trillion in the US. Um, we've had the bond market breakout.
Um, so the question of are you allowed to sell treasuries is like a real question. Now, explain that as a question and what that
mean to people who've got no idea what treasuries are, what it what it is.
Okay. So, America has to roll over approximately $10 trillion of debt because when when you buy a bond, it
comes with a few things. It comes with a maturity date and if you hold it through to maturity, you get all your money back. Um, and you're meant to get uh a
yield on top and whatever they pay like a five 5% four%. Yeah.
Um, and uh as people sell their bonds um or their treasuries uh the price of
their bonds or treasuries go down and therefore you have to pay a higher yield in order to try and persuade someone to
buy a new bond. Um, so if you're in a secondary market and you got bonds and you're saying, "Well, I got a 10-year bond and I want to sell it within 2
years." Um, then people are, you know, if the rates, if the yield's going up, then people are less, you have to pay,
the government has to pay more in order to borrow. And then your bond is worth less uh because it's got a lower a lower interest rate that gets paid on it.
It's worth less if you want to sell it.
Yeah. So, it's worth less if you want to sell it. and and sometimes in their extremes this this is what led to the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank. You
know, when a bank is uh trying to have a mismatch between people want to withdraw money and they've got these bonds and those bonds are at, you know, they need
to sell in distress in order to meet withdrawal demand. That's how you ended up with the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank. um as them having to sell it and
they didn't have enough and so they needed intervention and so the Fed or you know can basically decide is this bank going to stay or die we'll kill it
[laughter] you know and if you remember that was that was interesting cuz that happened um that was I was on an exace with Peter Till when he was telling
everyone on the space oh I've withdrawn my money from Silicon Valley bank everyone get your money out and literally crashed it um and he just got
his bank approved which is a stable coin in programmable money bank which was fasttracked through the uh the Genius
Act and the Trump administration. So after killing Silicon Valley Bank, he got his programmable money bank. Sounds a little bit suspicious.
Yeah, sounds a little bit suspicious.
Um [clears throat] but anyway, yeah, we're um so we're at the stage where US effectively has to roll over
approximately 9.7 trillion of debt when uh that's that's due by the end of this year.
That's why we're getting so much stress here. 25%.
So we got Yeah. So we got by the end of this year. So what are they doing at the moment? Well, we had this announcement
of Fed inter uh not Fed intervention, Treasury intervention. And so Treasury's basically saying and people some people
call it QE and money printing. It's not actually money printing. Um this is Treasury intervening in order to try and
uh reduce the amount of interest that they need to pay on their debt. Um and so they're basically intervening and
saying we used to be capped every quarter at buying uh $2 billion of treasuries. Now we're increasing that to
4 billion. Um, and then immediately when Scott Percent announced that, we had a little bit of a calming, but within 24
hours it was up. Those those yields were up at highs again. So, it corrected right back. How are they buying back that debt?
Um, effectively, well, they've got their own account at the Fed. Mhm.
Um, and they're able to use that in order to buy back these treasuries. Um, but then they can issue them again. So as they're issuing them on the short
term at lower rates, uh they can buy back the longerterm ones. So it's not creating new money, it's just trying to manage the liquidity. So like as they're
auctioning off, they may not be able to meet some of this demand. So Treasury can step in and meet some of the demand.
Uh but then they can issue at the same time. So they're selling and buying at the same time. So all you're doing is trying to reduce your cost.
But what does it really mean? Like [laughter] there's going to be people listening going, "Yeah, I got no [ __ ] idea what you're talking about." But um I've got no money at left at the end of month. What the hell's going on?
Yeah.
Chapter 3: Socializing losses and war
Um it means that the government is at that stage where um they're socializing the losses and
everybody's share of debt is increasing at a faster and faster rate. And it's increasing because of a few things. Um
firstly, there's an aging population in the US. So they need to meet all those uh demands of Medicare, Medicaid and different benefits. Uh secondly, uh they
need to fund more war because that's a stimulus check to the US stock market.
Um so the more war you create, the more the stocks and military companies receive that money and then they can go and destroy more buildings and then they
can rebuild them and get new contracts as a result of it. Um but also they get more um interest. Uh so as what we're
having right now is we're the the the cost of the interest is superseding uh the cost of you know the social programs
and what is now appropriately called not defense spending war spending um which I really like the way the Trump administration renamed that to be more appropriate.
It's kind of honest.
Yeah, it's kind of honest. Um and that is one of the things I do like about Trump. um amongst all his lies,
narcissism and gaslighting um he tells you the truth. So you just got to figure out which part is the truth and and which bit of the lies. The department for war.
Yeah. And department of war is that. And so Trump tells you, you know, everything that's happening. It's just amongst a bunch of other stuff, which is BS.
To keep this [ __ ] going, we got to go and kill a few brown people [clears throat] in the Middle East.
Yeah. So you got to you got to keep the war machine going. You got to you got to issue the bonds. You got to pump the stock market. um you've got to uh you
got to pay for more and more interest because of the Ponzi scheme. Um and so one way of Treasury coming along,
they're doing several things. So Treasury is saying, can we just take that debt that has a higher interest rate because we borrowed for like 30 years. Um, and can we buy some of that?
Uh, and then can we issue some new ones like with a lower interest rate, which means I'll lend to you for like a week,
a month, 3 months. Um, and so, you know, if you're going to be if you're going to lend to the US government for a week, you know, you're going to demand a lower
interest rate than if you're going to lend to it for 30 years.
Um, so it's basically refinancing, trying to reduce that interest cost is all it's really doing. But that comes at a cost. It means you need to keep
refinancing every week and you need to keep refinancing every month and you need to keep refinancing every 3 months.
So the the cost to lend to the government for 10 years or 30 years which is very important in the mortgage
markets because that sets the rate of the mortgage market. Um and there's a lot of debt that you know needs to
refinance in the mortgage market. Um, so the higher the the rates are over here in the longer term, the higher
everyone's mortgage becomes, uh, the higher the cost of auto loans. Um, and so what what the Fed is effectively what
not the Fed, what the Treasury is trying to do right now is get those rates down shortterm.
Um, and uh, but eventually, you know, there's only one way to fix this, which is that the Fed actually
comes in. And what what that means in in effect is that the Fed purchases those bonds. Uh but they do that via their
accounts with the banks. And so the banks just create some free money. They buy some more bonds. Um and then they the the Fed's balance sheet increases.
So it's just a way of money creating when it's done at the Fed bank level. Uh when it's done at the Treasury level, which is the government's bank account,
which is at the Fed, reduces the amount in their in their account at the Fed.
Um, but it it's just how they can manage these costs at the moment. And what the goal is that they're they're trying to figure out like you've kind of got these
two forces, right? The Fed, which is able to control these short-term rates.
They could push them up or down and they could control they could literally affect the whole market with what they do next. And uh this week like they're
meeting in Jacksonville and they'll give like everyone's going to be all eyes on what they say. But on the longer term, you've got everyone that owns those
longerterm bonds. They're known as bond vigilantes. And so the bond vigilantes, you know, they can say, "We want more and more and more. We're going to roll
over." You know, are we going to roll over? Well, they're demanding higher and higher rates at the moment. And they can also manage it what I call the financial
industrial complex. They can sell their bonds to get the prices down, get the yields up, get a higher rate. And effectively you just end up and even
this this is interesting in the UK because the largest foreign lender to the US government number one is Cayman Island, number two is Japan, number three is UK.
Chapter 4: The role of reserve currency
Cayman uh yeah Cayman Island is a proxy for all the hedge funds and all the SPVS and all the shenanigans.
So all the rich people go there and lend it out.
Yeah, it's not it's not quite that. It's it's a bit it's a bit more sinister than that. Obviously, you've got the people that are doing that like the the the country is not like a big lender as a
corporate balance sheet, but they set up all their vehicles and then they borrow from Japan. They do a Japan carry trade. uh they leverage it
over and they just they just literally um put tr you know trillions through these these these markets 50 to 100x
leveraged and they just knock out their basis point you know um in in what's called a basis trade from their yacht
uh basically yeah um and so Cayman Island is just basically extracting all the value out of the refinancing of the debt which it borrowers from Japan at a
at a cheap rate and these mechanics are the same whether it's the US, the UK, Europe, Australia is all the mechanics are the same.
Not not quite because the US is the world reserve currency, so they have a superpower. Um, and everyone else needs to play within the confines of that system.
Well, I've I've read recently that there are certain people in the US administration saying that they would have an interest in the dollar not being
the reserve currency anymore. Uh that's what that's what one would that's what one should do if they were thinking of
America first. So an America America first agenda would be don't and JD Vance was was one that's always pushed for that. Yeah.
Is don't have the dollar as world reserve currency.
um which effectively means you um you stop refinancing, you stop strengthening the dollar, you stop creating the demand for dollars, you allow the dollar to
weaken um and therefore your exports get cheaper and you can then you know you can then build your own labor force and
you can build your own manufacturing base. Um that's what's known in economics as a triffin's dilemma. You can't be world reserve currency
um and you know not have a ginormous deficit and a ginormous um exporter of debt globally. So world reserve currency
means you have to export your debt globally. You have to provide dollars.
What are dollars? Dollars are debt. So you have to provide that and you have to keep providing that. Um and and that is what comes with being world reserve
currency. and and this creates a mechanism essentially for financial institutions to fully financialize, securitize
um and and and run through bond vigilantes and and the Federal Reserve.
And when you say they're going to socialize these losses, it's it's only to the common man and the peasant really who's going to face the harshest of
times. The a lot of the wealthy will escape most of the punishment from this.
Well, the the wealthy own 92% of the stock market. So, the socializing losses means that you dump the debt on the
government and then the government pumps that into the stock market, which helps the 92% that own the stocks. And so,
what you're doing is you're socializing losses through the bond market and privatizing the gains through the stock market. And you might, if you own your
own real estate or property, you might benefit from some of that capital because it comes in on the bank and then the banks lend. And the more they lend,
the more they roll over, the more your property and real estate go up. Um, but common man, how's he having this socialized to him? Through inflation.
Uh, yeah. Well, well, through inflation, through um higher refinancing costs, and if they don't own if they don't own
their property, then they got no equity to refinance. if they don't own stocks, then they're not beating inflation. If
you just simply own debt and you own nothing, um then your prices are going up, uh and your share of the national
debt, which is being socialized through these higher and higher prices. And if you're in it's different if you're in the US and UK. So if you're in the UK
Chapter 5: Market manipulation and AI
eventually because the pound is no longer world reserve currency um eventually that translates into
austerity um hostile takeover of key assets you know so eventually so UK's at 95% of
debt to GDP now three3 trillion pounds of debt I think they need to roll over
about $285 billion this year um but at the same time they need to meet their
NATO um budget goals. So, we're currently at about 2% defense spending.
It needs to go up to 3% which is a stimulus check for military companies basically. Again, that translates back into the So, what happens is the more
war you get, the more the economy decouples from stocks and think of stocks as like a corporate money
printing. You know, recently Elon took um SpaceX public and immediately what did he do with a it was it was
approximately a $ 1.75 trillion valued company where you can take your stock and you can you can use your stock to
buy other assets. So he started acquiring lots of different companies using his stock and so it's like a money
printer at the stock level. Um and the other thing you can do is you can borrow against your stock as well.
Kurt, can you access the screen?
Can you get up the uh SpaceX um chart prices
because it obviously it shot up and then it dumped hard which I think we all knew was we're so used to this. Oh, it's come back back a bit.
Where are we now?
Uh if you zoom out, Kurt. Yeah, there we go. We come back a little bit. So what it went up to what nearly 190 bucks and
then went down to like 110. So nearly halved. It's back to about 140. So it's not even IPO price yet. Hit 2011. So it
almost halfed within a month and a half and I'm always like cuz this happens every time. I remember
when I got bit. I think it was Snapchat or Twitter. I just got bit. Facebook was a famous one.
Yeah. And it feels like every it's almost like all the value is in those who were in before it floats and then
just there's a total dump on retail every [ __ ] time. I like who's buying this [ __ ] when it launches. Well, that was um sadly for my sins.
That was my job. So like when when I worked as a stock broker, my job was just simply to sell stocks and the other
side of that was always the institutional investor. So when I did IPOs, you know, we were always I mean I
made most of my money in private equity and the Bitcoin sector. Um but once it gets to the public stage, you know,
that's uh you've got you tend to have the venture capitalists, the early capital, the angel investors, the Silicon Valley that they've all got
their exit. And so if you look at that, you can you can look at the timing of that. So immediately he said, "I want a
$1.75 trillion valuation." So he got Goldman Sachs to get a 1.75 trillion.
They float some stock. Um and then they have all the people that had the stock, the venture capitalists, the Silicon Valley, the employees, the share options, the um all the different stuff.
They they have their lockin schedules.
So you could time those those TR peaks and troughs to lock in schedules. But what you immediately have to do is you
have to take your stock valuation and you have to go on an M&A spree. This is what an investment bank will do. We'll get you your valuation. We'll get you
this, but you need to use your stock to buy as many companies as possible and you need to do a debt issuance. So what what's happening right now and this
intersects with what's happening at the government is um there is massive amount of AI companies that are issuing
corporate bonds you know similar to similar to treasury similar to government bonds and so they took their valuation they acquired as many companies as they could and then they
issued debt and so now we've currently got the AI buildout this year I think um Nvidia just released their figures like
good as well up 7% I mean 100 billion in a quarter. They're projecting 108 billion in the next quarter. It's insane.
Like these these are unheard of numbers, but they're building the infrastructure that all the other companies, you know,
have to um purchase in building out these data centers.
Aren't Nvidia like 7% of the stock market now?
Um probably something like that. I know like they they've had a bit of a correction. Um, but yeah, I mean, you
know, the the big the Magnificent 7, which now you add SpaceX, and then we're going to have Anthropic, and then we'll have Open AI, you know, the the
Magnificent 10, they they've had a bit of a correction recently, but they're eating more and more of the market. It's like it's fluctuating between 30 and 40%
of the S&P, but they're issuing a lot of debt. This is interesting. So they they have to at the same time as the government competing to roll over that
$10 trillion, 9.7 to be exact. Um they need the the AI companies are issuing
debt. And so they've they need to raise about 800 billion this year, another 1.3 trillion next year. So AI is now saying,
well, Google saying, well, I'll pay you a 6% coupon or a 7% coupon if you lend to me for 30, 40 years. Um and and now
there is not enough liquidity to refinance the data and uh finance this
AI data center buildout at the same time as countries deciding you know so if you if you put a country like UK in
austerity if they go through a financial crisis if they need an IMF bailout if well that is the right question because now
Chapter 6: Living through inflation
look at what the UK is like look at what the bond holders and the guilt holders are saying in order to refinance the
debt, America's at like went up to a peak of about 5.3%. You know, UK is at like 5.7% 5.8%.
Um, and so the bond vigilantes own the market right now. Everything is
dependent upon the ability to roll over those um those bonds. And so there there is no other story in the market other than watching those bonds at the moment.
Again, back to the like [laughter] the normal guy who's listening to all this and going, "Dude, I just want to go to [ __ ] work and feed my family and pay
my mortgage and, you know, have a beer on a Friday night and I want to go on holiday once a year.
What is all this bullshit?" Like, how do I how what am I meant to do?
Well, you have to own a bit more assets every month, and there's no other way around that only way. Yeah. The I don't know another way. Like, you either build a business that outperforms inflation.
Um, you either utilize AI to become so productive that your wage outperforms inflation. Um, or you purchase assets
that are outperforming inflation. Um, you you pick.
But but wages are not going up at the same rate as prices. And all of the the debt that's being socialized is being
privatized into the stock market. Um and while we're having this debasement it's called you know they're they're debasing
the currency. Um people are turning well central banks are turning to gold. Um people are turning to fixed supply
assets you know and that's where these like Bitcoin gold trades are kind of coming in. I think it's going to get pretty rough. I I was talking to
somebody recently about this. I said, I don't think you or I fully can comprehend the levels of inflation that going to come and what it's really going
to mean. Just there's like little signals everywhere.
This this is going to sound like a pretty privileged one, but just bear with me. Um, and apologies to anyone who thinks [ __ ] you for bringing this up as
an example, but like my kids went to a good school. We pay for their schooling, right? They've added that and there's been so much inflation that the pricing
of the school has nearly um I was saying six seven years gone up 50%. This used to be an overs subscribed school. It's
no longer overs subscribed and there are other schools starting to close close down. So that's just one example where people are feeling the pinch and the
important point of that is it's the middle class pinch is really starting to happen. Um, and I know when people say they go, I when I did my sainsbury
shopping this week and I'm like, I spent nearly 200 pound on shopping. It used to be £120. Or they're buying a steak from
that just the bloody pub over the road from me. We we four of us go for dinner.
This is a pub. It's £200 on a dinner. That's like a casual dinner is like you used to go like you go to
Pizza Express and you spend 70 quid or something. It's 200 quid now. Yeah, we did a Nando order for six of us the
other night. 120 quid. I'm like, this is this is not sustainable.
Yeah, I don't. So, I just I think the inflation number I think this is going to just get a lot of [ __ ] Simon.
Chapter 7: AI as a disinflationary force
Well, there is a counter to it and and this is where um AI is incredibly disinflationary by nature.
Like the more productivity gains you have there um the cheaper things will become. Uh, and I think anyone running a
business right now is finding the reduction in the cost. Um, I know some people are talking about like paying a lot on AI tokens and stuff like that,
but it doesn't compare to like what the cost before.
So, dude, my worst month I spent £9,000 on AI tokens and I was very inefficient. Yeah.
But I I built about a million pound of software. Yeah.
And at the same time, you could take some of that, not all of it, and you could have your own environment, like run your own LLM in your own
environment, and people are going to catch on to this. You know, that's what open source allows you to do.
Um, there's certain parts of that. It's not quite the decentralized is not quite the centralized. So you can have your own, you know, when you're dealing with
sensitive data and stuff, you can have your own environment, but you know, the the the
models will get cheaper over time. Um, even though the costs are getting more and more expensive.
Yeah. But what does that mean for a frontier model?
Well, I think there's a I think there's a lag period where they need as the highest valuations while the companies
go public so they can get so they need as much revenue as possible in this kind of transition.
Um, however, we're starting to see China rapidly catch up in terms of efficiency, open source, cheap, and use it just for
actual business building and infrastructure processes. So more and more people are going to start running parts of their own infrastructure in their own environment for cyber security
data reasons all sorts of reasons why they're going to do that. Um and so this revenue effectively drops you know over
while we're in a massive bull market and there's no doubt that this is something that's changing the world in every aspect possible
um it does make things cheaper in the end. Well, somebody also said to me, um, I'm not even sure it was an interview on the show. Somebody said, "You're
thinking about uh AI revenue wrong for the frontier models. Yes, they're selling tokens and making money on that, but ultimately they're always multiple models ahead of us.
Like what Open AI has, what Anthropic has is way ahead of what we've had." Yeah.
They're going to um gatekeep some of that technology and build businesses.
They're going to invent stuff. They're going to cure diseases. Is it going to become me? Like I don't know if you saw it with um MidJourney. They developed a body scanner.
Have you seen their body scanner? I haven't seen that.
It's incredible. It's an incredible piece of technology.
But they start out as a an image generator. AI an unbelievable AI image generator. But he said that's where they're going to make the insane money
is in uh medical like advance things like a medical advancements and they're going to monetize their own models which we won't have
access to. Yeah, I think it's always been that way. Like I think I just never thought of it like that.
All all technology was originally creative technology we use was originally created with military budgets for killing people, frankly.
Um and then they give it to us later, [laughter] you know, and then they surveil us with it and then we have to utilize that in order to, you know, try
and defeat the system and then resist against it with decentralized. But, you know, that's kind of always been the way. Uh, and there's no doubt about it.
I mean, the I think the the the thing is to try and put together quite a lot of different things here. And it's very
uncertain times. No doubt about it. But you have to own assets. So, what are those assets? Well, the AI side is
eating up the market. It feels like there's a very nice pump and dump cycle there. like whenever it happens. I can't
get the timing right. Um so you don't think we're in the pump yet? I think we've got more of a pump to go.
Um I think that, you know, they they need to get through the anthropic IPO.
They need to get through the chat GBT IPO, the Open AI one. There's more debt to finance.
The the the the interesting game is the government competing with AI for debt at the moment and corporate bond issuance.
And that's a very interesting trade at the moment. But um they need to get through that and then there is a
reality. It's kind of like the reality is that those prices have to come down and will come down. It'll be another 2008.
Chapter 8: Financial crisis mechanisms
Yeah, you you will I I don't know if it's 2008 or 2000. I'd say um I don't think it it could be a 2000 or 2008. The
difference is in 2000 it was all like private equity, venture capital, stock valuations.
In 2008 that was um the securities were mortgage back securities and therefore it affected liquidity in the banking
system. But remember 2008 the winners were Black Rockck and JP Morgan. You know they just got all the assets and
and the government paid for it. They socialized losses privatized gains and Larry Finker Black Rockck was the inventor of the mortgage back security
as well. So he he he ba and he ended up buying Barclay's eyes shares which is the key asset that gave Black Rockck all
of its influence through ETF you know exchange traded funds um but the 2008 was liquidity now it could be liquidity
because if you look behind what is funding all this AI data centers is corporate debt it is public offerings so
that's the 2000 part um but also it leaks into the what's called private credit which is uh basically those
Cayman Island funds and Black Rockck funds, you know, they basically just raise money through a fund and then they
issue these loans to data centers. But half the time, remember I said there's two sides of the trade. Like some of them are borrowing from Japan, um others are, you know, borrowing from the banks.
And so if the banks have significant exposure to private credit, plus there's all the commercial real estate issues,
um, plus there's the the the answer is who's going to who is going to roll over all this debt? Well, it's finance. It's
the bond vigilantes. It's so this is just significant transfer of power to these technology companies, financial
companies, and then military companies as well. So that's what [clears throat] that's effectively what we're witnessing here with you paying the bill through
socializing losses while they privatize the gains.
Are you following the housing market in the UK? What's happening? It's kind of silently collapsing.
Um yeah, the UK market is is interesting. So I I I always put countries in phases. I think um America
is at that phase where their debt is still the collateral of the entire banking system. So that has to roll over which creates that transfer we just
talked about. Uh but in the UK um I think they're there's there's a mode where you can just do the you know what
what the Brits effectively did around the world which is you load a country up with that um and then you influence
politicians to re to create you draft policies uh through your you know think tanks uh and then you fund them through
non-governmental organizations and then you pay for politicians groom them. And so we've had about seven regime changes
in 10 years in the UK. Um, and you pay politicians to groom them. Um, and then they their policy becomes what was a
covert corporate agenda effectively. But it looks like and then the government needs to sell that to the people and show how it benefits them. Um, and one
of the best ways of doing that is to push a a kind of a more socialist leftist agenda into wealth inequality.
And so if you can do that, you can justify tax increases. You can, you know, you can justify on the on one side
you have a right a right austerity with free marketeteers that agenda.
The evil fist. Yeah. The Yeah. And then on the other side you push the social, you know, social reforms
tax the billionaires, you know, all of that.
But both are useful to the same power structure.
Yeah. uh because on the on the tax side what you can do is you can create distressed assets. So what happened in
the UK is you had the mill the millionaires and billionaires they kind of went to tax neutral jurisdictions
like UAE and various other countries. Um and then you had certain narratives around tax the billionaires.
Yeah. They're just laughing at you going I'm not going to be there. So, so they all go and then that ends up kind of a
wealth tax or a exit tax in the end. Um, so the wealthy they kind of exit and then when the middle class potentially
try and exit to like Spain or something like that, they get an exit tax. Um, and to get there, to make them want to exit,
you give them a wealth tax. So, they have to sell their their property in order to pay their tax.
You're trapped either Um, so then you can create a correction in the real estate market. And what you'll notice is a lot of the the the tax things are kind
it's kind of like um they have exemptions and when when you really read through the details, you can see the institutional exemptions in all of this.
So Black Rockck doesn't have to pay that, but the people do. What a surprise.
Chapter 9: The UK property market
Exactly. So you get you can you can cr you can effectively crash a market. Now, how do you do that? You know, we we often talk about like [clears throat]
jokingly but very true. You know, the World Economic Forum, they always tell us what like the agenda is. You will own nothing and be happy. And so, if you can
pump the value of real estates, get them to keep refinancing through their, you know, equities. On the other side of that is the funds that are putting
together all this rollover. What's on the other side of the British debt?
Well, BlackRock is providing all that collateral. So you put your guilts in their fund, they issue you leverage and
so they own all of the the the US debt through these leverage funds. You know, that's how they took out Liz Trust effectively. You know, Liz Trust met the
bond vigilantes, the guilt vigilantes in the UK. And that's because our the pensions in the UK, they're highly
leveraged. You know, the they're used as collateral in order to issue more leverage guilt. So UK is one of the
that's why UK sits there as a as a as a big lender to the US government. Uh because the city of London um is allowed to create dollars as well.
That's the Euro dollar market. Um that is what leads to them buying through these pensions.
And so in the end you're looking around who who is the bag holder of all this debt? Who's going to roll over the debt?
Well, it's anyone that's connected to the Federal Reserve system. And the bank of England is one of those key you know those key components in it. So we are
paying for the military stimulus through war spending.
We are providing the collateral for black rockck to pump the stock market to fund the AI trade data center trade and
we're implementing the reforms that allow them to crash the assets and buy them on the cheap.
They'll buy them on the cheap. So, everyone's leveled up through their um you know through their equity release programs in the good times. Then they
get to the bad times. You get a you get the asset stripping phase. You do wealth tax, then you do exit tax. Um and then
you do really strange reforms like we had uh the North Sea oil like windfall taxes on our energy. So now we're
dependent upon US energy completely. Um, we were purchasing all of China's windmills through our carbonneutral like climate change policy.
Um, then we're uh um with the Yeah, with the properties you you get these like reforms that say
uh like some of them they're crazy. Like um if you're a landlord at the moment and you're renting out like it's almost like you have to go to court to try and
evict a tenant and they've got all these crazy like rights in terms of why would you be a landlord now? Ex
Exactly. So you're like I don't want to be a landlord. Um I'm leveraged up and rolling over my debt so I have to
refinance it at this higher interest rate. Um, I didn't exit in time, so I might get my I'm trying to avoid my exit
tax. And so if I don't, I then get my wealth tax. And then you can correct the market. Black Rockck can buy it all up in the funds and then you will owe
nothing and be happy. And so what will they issue you? We're moving to this universal basic income, which is when you put it all together.
Yeah. They um they're coming for everything.
I keep saying it. They're coming for everything. K, can you get Venice up? I want to have a look at the UK housing market. Yeah.
Can you just um just search up um uh UK average house prices
uh adjusted for inflation for the last 10 years?
Because I saw this amazing post where this uh couple had bought a house [snorts] um and it was like half a
million. They bought it 15 years ago and they were now about to sell it for 900,000. and they thought they'd made 400,000 profit. Mhm.
But when they put in the stamp duty Mhm.
um the cost of buying, the cost of selling, the cost of the work they put into the property and then adjusted for inflation, they'd lost money.
Yeah. Yeah.
Chapter 10: Future of work and control
Right. So based on search results, here's okay. The average UK house price in January 2016 was 196,000. By January 2026, it had risen to 270,000. 271,000.
So what's that? an increase of about what's that 75,000 represent a nominal increase of 37.6% over the decade.
However, when adjusted for inflation, the picture changes significantly. In the 3 years leading up to January 20 26, house prices rose by just 4.9% while the
consumer price index increased by 10.4% during the same period. I mean, there it is. Yeah.
And like I wouldn't tell anyone to buy a house right now. Yeah.
Have you seen what's happened to like London property prices?
Yeah. I've heard like in like the affluent areas like Chelsea and stuff.
Well, you know, the big blocks of flats as well, there's people who have seen they're having to put their house up 30% less than they bought it for and then still not getting viewings.
Yeah.
I mean, so many people losing their jobs to AI or just struggling with the econom. The whole I I'm just wondering when what makes that collapse. Well,
here's here's the thing. In finance, make money on the way up and the way down. Yeah.
So, they don't care. Literally, they they don't care where it goes in general as a complex like when you're when you're that diversified as a as a Black Rockck or or you know, something.
Um, [clears throat] so your your idea is, you know, you keep you keep extracting on the way up, lending on the
way up, loading up the debt on the way up. Um, and then you make money through the distressed acquisitions on the way down. And you're you're hedged
completely like you know in both in both directions cuz you're also issuing the derivatives and you're also um pl you
know placing the trades in in leverage bets. So [clears throat] it it's just it you know it's such a
complex set of systems but like trying to just bring it back to you know what what seems to be happening when you
place all of these complexities together um is that we're definitely hitting a phase where I I think AI does actually
combat a lot of that inflation um offsets a lot of that inflation depending on who captures the value.
Well, yeah, but the value is going to be captured by then the own the AI infrastructure, the data centers, you
know, the the data, the the stocks. Um, so it's going to capture there. That's eating up more and more of the S&P.
Um, the businesses that are going to get the biggest productivity gains are going to be those same companies that have the
head start on the AI. um and then announcing the the layoffs afterwards and then getting the head start and announcing things.
Um but eventually this gets to where I think you're hinting at like where is the end, you know, how how far can you push this thing?
What I mean what percent of jobs are under threat in the next say two years?
I I looked it up. So my um first GBT request I did was November 2022.
Don't know what it was, but it was like, "Oh, this is a fancy Google." It actually reminded me when I switched from Out of Vista to Google and I went, "Wow." Yeah.
And I had my first wow moment. And I've continued to use Venice, Chat, GBT, Anthropic, all in different ways for different things.
But less than four years ago, I was using as a posh Google. Now I'm building apps in 3 days. Mhm. Where are you in two years with this?
Yeah. You know what happens to the call centers when it actually doesn't feel like you're talking to a robot? It is like functionally is better than a
human. What happens to every job that a AI can do better than a human at $20 a a
week cost that works 24/7, that doesn't need employment rights, doesn't have a minimum wage, doesn't
come with [ __ ] You know, look, in person jobs, you're still going to want someone serving you a coffee or a beer or and a flight attendant. lots of jobs still exist where you want you don't
want a robot you know I know you can get robots can serve you beer and ps I don't want to go to a [ __ ] pub where a robot serves me but but the world of middle class people
where they get on a metal tube they come to London they sit in an office and they move things around on a screen what happens to all these people and I know
you you'll listen to like all in they say yeah look there's this great example here we've created new jobs I don't see a world where we create 50
those 50% of people are under threat We create new jobs. So what happens?
Yeah. The the the only people that are telling you that this is okay is like the Jeff Bezoses of the world or the the the the VCs funding them.
Yeah. The Simbar's Illuminati.
[laughter]
Well, you know, they they have to have that they have to have that narrative and it's and and even like the the illusion of the government right now, you know, they they have to everyone has
to just prop up a narrative and you have to see through that. So what do you think? I I think there will be rapid
Chapter 11: Navigating a dystopian future
loss of jobs. Um I there's no chance that we're going to make up with new opportunities for the amount of jobs
that can be lost here. Um I think that they're building everything to split the world into different types of people.
Those are only assets and those that own the debt, the bgeoisi and the proter.
Um and they do have a plan for those that own the debt. Um and that is that
they are going to create the technology the stable coins and the central bank digital currencies that can either be
issued through financial crisis as a bailout or can be issued as a bailout of
the AI pump and dump if it relates back into the private credit market through innovation. Um or it can be helicopter
money and we've seen all of these before, you know. So, but now what will that money come with? Well, we've got
this new in the US Genius Act and this new stable coin legislation in the UK.
Um and that is the programmable money of artificial intelligence that requires data and social credit scores. Do do you
think the plan is to uh to essentially allow the rich people to get richer and
[ __ ] the poor or do you think there's inevitability of this and the way the government is writing its policy and looking at technology is like how do we
just manage through this cuz this is inevitable.
Yes, I think it's inevitable. Um, but do you think they're trying to prepare society for an inevitable and No, I think they're extracting as much value as they can, right?
And building they they know what their solution is. Their solution is the the the control grid, the you know the the the dystopian future.
The dystopian well again let's define let's define what that means. The price of goods gets cheaper. It offsets
inflation. We I think we do have some kind of reversal there. um that has all sorts of impacts on on on all sorts of
markets. Um the concentration and importance of those that own the AI
control grids, the the actual physical, they become increasingly more important,
but they're forced into this refinancing that I talked about. Those data centers, they all go, they're dead investments in
3 years. They need to be new chips, new machines, new innovation, you know. So, you got to spend that. You got to keep
spending that. So, what you're saying is effectively the financers that are issuing all this debt and financing all
of this, they're becoming the masters of this system and all of the values concentrating into this these technical
companies. The military is getting the resources needed for that buildout. um wherever they come from, whether it's energy, whether it's rare earths,
whatever, whatever is needed for that buildout. Um, and those that own that part of the infrastructure, either on a
small level because you're a passive investor, then you might build enough assets, but
the rest um as a disaster happens um you know, we we're we're slowly being
fed. You we talked about the real estate market, other things are happening in the UK. So um you know the we policies
like that make a lot of sense to a parents right we don't want our child consuming pornography and having exposure so if to use the internet you
need to prove you're 16 and therefore we need a digital ID and you need to register um and now that registration and then you have data hack leaks and various
other stuff so we're feeding the algorithms with everything we're doing and we have no choice I'm not saying opt out because just like you to remain
productive in this you have to kind of embrace it to a certain degree and you have to build and you have to become part part of that data. So, I
think it's about knowingly understanding what what's happening.
Uh preparing for it. Um making sure that you're building um and you know there's there's kind of
like a a making sure that you own the assets that outperform all the [ __ ] because that's structurally not going to change. Now what they could do is they
could end up and I think AI can have a real big impact eventually where prices come down and you feel like okay I'm
feeling I'm feeling better off. Um I haven't got a job. I'm getting my Dole,
my stimulus check, which was a temporary measure after my job went down or the financial crisis happened or the AI data
centers all blew up and the the trade the valuations blew up, whatever the disaster is, they'll give you a
helicopter money and you could enter a stage where you're like, don't really want to go back to work, you know, and things are getting
cheaper, so it feels pretty good. Um, but they will give you that programmable money. And if you get out of control,
there will be control that comes with that programmable money.
But what does life look like? You know, cuz life at the moment is you go to work, you go down to the pub on Friday, you go to football on the Saturday, you
can go for a wander around London, you go to the theater, you go shopping. It are we are we going to see a vastly
different world where actually it's a little bit more or a lot more dangerous?
There are a lot more people who are on the edge or don't have money. There's the halves and the halves not. And the have nots are are going to be taken from the halves
and we're going to I'm trying to picture it. I I all I see is those films you see where there's lots of militarized police
with batons beating people back. It feels like Snow Piercer. I I think um my
best guess would be that you enter that in order to drive the fear and then from the fear you have the solution they
always wanted and that controllable programmable money with social credit scores integrated with all that the war
machine's done around the world and you know we we've seen all what they can do that's coming home and it's integrated
into the money. So you will hit the stage where you will owe nothing and be happy. What does that mean? I don't have
any assets. Um but I do have an income that comes in and maybe I'm happy. Maybe
I don't want to go to work. Maybe I'm enjoying my life more. Maybe there is less crime because one of the promises
of less crime, you know, one of the promises of all this surveillance and control, which I think we're headed towards, is that you may be able to
control that crime. Who controls it? The ones that own the data. Um, and is this the optimistic version?
Well, the optimistic version is to be the asset owner, to be building with AI, to be on the other side of the trade.
um the vast majority will be on this side of the trade and so um that is I believe the choice that
everyone needs to make ahead. You're either preparing to be on that side there's I I look at the world and I see
three things. I see uh own the assets, own, you know, take
out the debt, borrow against, you know, do everything that the rich and wealthy do in that world. Um, and preserve that
world and benefit from that world. Um, you're on the other side, you know, you're in the you're going to be on the
UBI and the social credit scores and the surveillance machine.
Um there there is a third person which I think is the optimistic case which is that with all this AI and with all this
innovation um we we do need to build resistance digital resistance decentralized versions you know hosting our own LLMs
um preserving our own identities decentralizing our money holding on node self-custody so but traditionally that's
been like okay that's the tech geeks Right. But hold on. Everyone should be a if if you're young, you have to be a
tech geek. Like there's no option to not be a tech geek today. So the future are all tech geeks. Yeah. You you have to be
Chapter 12: Sovereignty and Bitcoin
a tech geek. Everything's young people are natively tech geeks.
Exactly. So they're our future. So that's our digital resistance. You know, these are the people that are going to be building the resistance against these
centralizing technology, this programmable Orwellian nightmare. And we need as many people that are going to be
investing in the the decentralized movement, running their own nodes, understanding how to So I mean, you hope this, but
I'm not saying I hope. I'm saying that's what the three people look like. How many there will be is I don't know.
I feel there's a small group in that because the young people are uh seeing there's a lack of jobs. They are priced
out of the housing market. They've been loaded with debt themselves by going to university, a debt they can't get rid of. And they're seeing Zack Palanskis
and the other socialists say, "See, this is all wrong. Those people over there are bad." And in some ways, they're right. Exactly.
You know, like, I'm not a socialist, but I fully see what the rich have done to extract all the value away from people
in ways that aren't fair. If this is a game, they're cheating. And you know they're they're going to be it's easier
to sell. You give me you put you put 50 kids in front of me. I [ __ ] cannot stand the Green Party or Zach Palansky.
I can sell them easier than I can sell restore reform or anything conservative.
You know, Zach Palansky goes to nightclubs and sings on stage and dances around. Yeah. The conservatives. They wear suits and ties and they say everything's bad.
You know, I sadly I think they're going to get sucked into that.
Yeah. And that's the majority. It always has been the if you look at the entire history of human civilization, whether you have a democracy, a
dictatorship, a monarchy, a communist regime, whatever, the rich and wealthy rule. Yeah.
And that's it. It's never changed. It's never going to change. It's never going to change.
And and you have to decide where you fit in that place. You either get co-opted into the system, you resist the system and get wealthy, or you just be the
masses. and and the masses is they're trying to make it where you will owe nothing and be happy and maybe you will be happy. Some people that's okay. These
these are this is very demoralizing corrupting world. This is a complex world, you know, comes with a lot of
cost and and heartache and pain anyone that's been through trying to resist against these systems. And then there's
everyone else. Um, and so we're just going through the the latest iteration of what that looks like in a in a technocratic world.
How important is Bitcoin?
No, I I think Bitcoin is very important. Um, and I I know that because of the lengths that the um the financial industrial
complex has gone to try and centralize it and kill it and they couldn't kill it. So, they're just trying to own it, securitize it, financialize it.
So, they benefit there as well. Larry F's got a a big fat stack.
Yeah, absolutely. So um you know they the Bitcoin and self custody and running
nodes I still think is one of the most important thing that any youth could do.
Um no matter how much you own like you you must in this to avoid this if you don't want to be one of these if you
don't want to if you want to be one of these then own the ETF and make Larry think happy and and and he'll make you happy. If you want to be one of these um
you know then uh you won't own any Bitcoin [laughter] um you know you can do it another way um
but if you if you want to be a part of this digital resistance then
um self-custody running nodes and there's a very important skill that comes from forget about Bitcoin whatever
your opinion is here's what it teaches you everyone that has lost money or made money with Bitcoin um has learned that
there is a skill that you need to learn in protecting what's called key management. So, Bitcoin is keys. That's the same with identity. That's the same
with AI. That's the same with everything. Um you're either going to give your keys away or you're going to be given keys or you're going to hold
your own keys. Now, in Bitcoin, that's kind of a very niche meme, but Explain it to somebody who hasn't heard about Bitcoin for like I know, you know.
Yeah. Yeah. So, um, Bitcoin effectively the abil the ability to own your own money, spend money with anybody, um, and
have a monetary policy that never changes. That's a fixed supply, you know, has many of the properties of gold, but even better in terms of fixed
supply. Um, in order to own your own money and spend your own money, you need Bitcoin is effectively a key. Um, and a
key is passphrases, you know, a line of it's something you have to secure. And if if somebody steals your key or gets
your key, they have your Bitcoin. It's like a pile of cash. You know, if they take your pile of cash, it's their cash.
Um, you could try and call the police, you could try and get it back, you could try and go to court, you could try and sue them. Um, but effectively, ownership
is the governance of the system. Um, and ownership is what everybody needs in this AI Orwellian
nightmare. Um, and so when you have money on the line and you're trying to figure out how to secure your money, there are things you need to learn, you
know, and certain skills which are very unnatural if you don't know them. I think the youth can learn these skills but the most important skills um which
is like how to secure a key and there's practices we've learned over the last 15 16 17 years from disaster after disaster
after disaster after disaster how to protect a key. Now, the reason I I encourage everybody to learn how to protect a key with small money on the
line if you want um you know, is you're going to need that for your identity. If you want to not be that you will own
nothing and be happy, you need to own something, which is a key. Um and hopefully that allows you to outperform, you know, the the market, the inflation.
Um but it also allows you to own the most important things, your social data, your identity, all these things.
Uh the more people that do that, the more people are going to be able to be a part of this digital resistance and
Bitcoin is a brutal mechanism for teaching you how to secure your key where money is on the line if you get it
wrong. And so it it drives you into ultra ultra paranoia um ultra security. These are the skills
of the future. the the one that is protecting from cyber attacks from you know security like these are the skills of the future. The the the difference
between those and those is these people gave their key to power. These people just don't have a key uh and these
people protect their own key and that is the key to your sovereign freedom in the future in a world where everything's
going digital and everything's becoming data.
Should we talk about cold card? Yeah, we could do I think uh obviously if this was still a Bitcoin show, I would have made a show about Cole Garden. I haven't. Uh it's
first time I've talked about it on the show. Um I find the whole thing so depressing.
Yeah, especially watching prices. You watch prices go up now and you're like, there's no pleasure in this cuz I know there's other people watching prices go
up who've lost their Bitcoin. Yeah. I think one person lost 61 Bitcoin. I saw another guy interviewed by Natalie Brunell who'd lost multiple Bitcoin. I
saw all the horror stories. That's this has been this is horrific. Yeah.
[snorts] So, um and for people who don't know Bitcoiners, you can secure secure your Bitcoin with something called a hardware wallet. The the main players
are Ledger, Treasure, and probably Cold Card were up there, Bit Key. And it's just a device like it's a device and you just secure your Bitcoin. And so, Gold
Chapter 13: Lessons from security failures
Card was one of the it was kind of like the the hardcore Bitcoiners uh wallet of choice, hardware wallet of
choice. And uh recently there was a vulnerability dis discovered um which allowed people
to guess someone to run an AI to guess brute force people's private keys and drain their wallets. Is that a fair summary?
Yep. Um, so this one was particularly brutal because it was a new it was a new attack vector. So in the 15 years I've
been involved in Bitcoin, I was a shareholder in Kraken who helped the Mount Gaus victims. That was like 800,000 Bitcoin that was stolen from an
exchange. So that was giving your Bitcoin to someone else to hold them for you. Um, I was involved in um when
120,000 Bitcoin were hacked uh for by an exchange called Bitfinex. Um, I worked on the recovery plan for the victims of that.
That worked out well, didn't it?
It worked out incredibly well. Yeah, that was one of the the best stories I have in my arsenal if we were doing a Bitcoin podcast. [laughter]
Um, I uh was involved in two years of traditional bankruptcy with Celsius, which was a fraud that sold billions of, you know, stole billions of dollars.
There's an interesting integration there because the the Bitcoin, this is all about borrowing against your Bitcoin, you know, just like how people do with their assets and their stocks.
Um, but what people were doing is they were putting their Bitcoin in with Celsius to borrow against it so they
don't have to sell it. Then Celsius would take the Bitcoin and borrow against it with um, Tether, which is the
partner company of Bitfinex. So, they put their Bitcoin in Bitfinex. Tether issued them a loan and then they they invested in a billion dollars of stuff
that had that what we talked about with Silicon Valley Bank, liquidity mismatch, things that couldn't be solved. Uh and then there was a load of fraud on top of
it and it bankrupted. Um so I've been through all of those, but this one was different because um cold card I'd say
was a niche wallet that was targeted at a very specific type of Bitcoiner. you know, the the the what we call the toxic Bitcoiner, the one that says all crypto
scams. Um the one that says own your own keys, self-custody, run your node. You know, that was the Bitcoiner that was
doing everything right and followed
[snorts]
what they were meant to do. So, it was a very specific attack in in the history of Bitcoin hacks. There's been about 1.3
million bitcoins across all those different ones. This was about 2,000 Bitcoin and it's still ongoing now because um if anyone has a cold car by
the way, you should be withdrawing it right now. Um uh still. But um
the what what what was learned and and it's a big lesson. It's the most painful lesson um is that there is a way of
generating your own passphrase which is something you need to learn if you're going to be managing your own key. It's actually quite simple. You just need to know it. and most people
didn't know it. Um, there is also a way of making sure that if you've got your Bitcoin, it requires multiple devices.
It's called multi- signature. Um, and so anyone that had multi- signature didn't get hacked. Anyone that generated their own passphrase didn't get hacked.
I'm just going to help people again here cuz some might not know. Mhm.
You talked about keys. Multi- signature, like when you sign a Bitcoin transaction, you use your private key.
Uh, multi- signature means maybe you've got five keys and you have to use three of them. Mhm.
And some people would set up with different types, like they might have a ledger, a treasure, and a cold card. And so even if the cold card got hacked to
spend from, they couldn't spend from the other two. Yeah.
Yeah. Thanks for doing that, Pete. I I tell you what, when you're when you're involved in like technology and finance, the amount of the amount of jargon that
comes and you you hit a stage where you don't know whether you're talking like a normal human anymore.
But it was fine when this was a Bitcoin show. Now it isn't. There's other people listening, what the [ __ ] are these people on about private keys and Bitcoin? What? That's a scam, isn't it?
Okay, here's here's what I want you to know. if you can learn how to have a couple of wallets or multi- what's called that setup
um and you can generate your own passphrase um that none of that got hacked
but what did get hacked is when that particular device if you had one one signature um and you relied upon the device they
had a faulty mechanism that was insecure for generating that phrase and with this ma massive amount of data in artificial
intelligence, it was able to get brute force and guess that key and sweep the Bitcoin away from those. It was about
500 people, 2,000 Bitcoin. Um, it's one of the worst things that's ever happened in our sector. It kind of went a bit
under the radar other than within our community. U, it was very targeted at Bitcoiners that were doing the right
tuff. Um, but it's it's our latest lesson in in key management. Um, and I think everybody had to adjust to that reality. Um, everybody got more secure.
Now, here's the thing that I try and take from that, cuz it was tragic. It was really tragic. Um,
this is only going to get more and more prevalent. Like a AI brute forcing, AI hacking, like this is what concerns me most about
the world today. And this is the opportunity for the youth today. And this is why I want, you know, I want the youth to at least learn key management.
Um, and can Bitcoin be unhackable?
Well, um, I think you know that what there's a few more challenges, right, that we've got ahead.
One, this whole quantum thing, um, which is a future challenge. We know how to solve it. It's just the road and path to
solve it. Um, I think this wasn't Bitcoin that was hacked. This is people that got hacked
and in this particular case it was a device that was faulty that people were using and they if they weren't using the best security procedures. So the answer
to this is everybody needs to start using the best security procedures and our industry knows what they are. It's just a question of learning them. And this is what I want all the youth to do.
If we are to have a digital resistance in this you will own nothing and be happy world, then we need as much young
people that know how to handle keys. Um, and then use their wealth to invest in things that make this easier for others.
But I I don't see an alternative. I I understand that um
older people have have, you know, very very little chance of doing that. Uh cuz
they've hit that stage in life. But that's the world we're in. And I I we're not we're not going to change the world that we're in.
Um and so key management I believe is my bit of hope.
But recruiting young people for this is hard. Recruiting one to care. Yeah.
Two, to see the value. Three to do the hard work. It's hard.
Well, um, if I'm a young person and I can understand where the world is going and I know that the only thing I can do,
Chapter 14: Taking control of your life
I'm I'm I need to help the world transition to AI, then I have a mountain of opportunity to try and help the old world adjust to that new world.
If I'm trying to just own a house, get a job, do everything in the old way, I'm just going to get wrecked. It ain't going to work. That world doesn't exist.
So, I need to accept the world. It's done. That's done.
Yeah. I mean, who who's going to go to who's going to go to university, get a job, and buy their house? Like, that that doesn't exist. It doesn't exist anymore. That's not the path to wealth.
Um, you could even get that timed wrong, and they could move the market against you and you could get rich. That's what happened to my dad. He lost he worked
his whole life and lost everything in.com boom and bust everything in one go when he was a pensioner. Um and is that what drove you on then?
That's exactly what drove me on. Yeah, I'm writing a book on that right now actually. Um but yeah, in 2000 my
how was that for him? I mean obviously horrific but talk me through it. What what you're willing to say? Oh, I can I'm I'm happy to talk about So, you
know, my my father earned his money in uh before I was born, he was in a very he had a colorful life in
London, let's say. He was a driver for the craze. He was a flat mate with Jimmyi Hendris. He made all his money through casinos and gambling.
He's a cool [ __ ] [laughter] He was. Yes.
Um and uh um when when when I was born um you know he decided to try and legitimize his
money um and so he didn't trust banks and stuff like that. So he had a bunch of cash um and then he made all his
money with um with property. I think he bought a house in Kensington for £12,000. [ __ ] hell. In Kensington High Street.
You can't get dinner for that. Yeah, exactly.
Um, [snorts] so he he made his money. Um, and he was poor. Like his his father was a his father, my grandfather was a bus driver.
They had seven children. And you could they were poor. Like real poor. But the family survived. Seven kids on a on a bus driver salary. Imagine that.
Well, my dad my dad was one of six um in a two-bed house in Ireland. And they had [ __ ] all. They actually had to move
to England. Uh my uh granddad was a train conductor. Yeah.
My grandma didn't work and they had six kids. Yeah. They found a way.
Not not possible today. [laughter] Um seven seven kids. Uh bus driver salary. Uh he never owned his house. He
couldn't never get that. But my you know my father ended up like making money washing his money through and and he he
got to the stage where he had his million pounds. you know, his dream was to become a millionaire. He went back to his council flat in Bristol with his
Rolls-Royce outside the fish and chip shop. Love it.
Yeah. Um and um he had a series of disasters. Firstly, my mom left him.
Um and uh he was trying to get into politics at the time and uh there's a story. I've got all the newspaper
clippings, but he was working for Maggie Thatcher uh trying to get in the political lobbying scene and protect his
real estate portfolio in Bristol. Um and uh yeah, his his uh my mom turned up
with her new partner and he went over to them and threw a bowl of punch over them and uh it was filmed by the press and he
was forced to retire. So that was the end of his political career. [laughter] Wow.
Yeah. Um and uh so the divorce meant that he ended up with half his portfolio.
Uh then somebody contacted the HMRC and uh HMRC investigated all of his
money and uh you know he couldn't declare the cash. He's passed away now so I can say this stuff. Yeah.
Um and he in the end he had to sell all his property in order to pay the tax man. So he lost it to a divorce, then a
tax man. Um, and then he took what he had left and said, "Right, I want to legitimize it." So he put it in a bank.
And then the bank was obviously inflating away the value of the money.
And so he was like, "Why don't I put it in stocks?" Um, and so this was around the internet boom. This was 1998, 1999.
I was 18, 19 years old. Um, and uh he's he uh his gambling mentality came out, of course.
And so he put it all in. Uh he he he put everything on red and lost it all. Um
everything I know about you now just makes sense. Every single thing. How long have I known you? Eight years,
I think. Yeah. God of 10 years. Yeah. Just all makes sense now.
Yeah. Yeah. because you wanted you've you've tried to take on literally [clears throat] the government, the banks and the stock market where he
asked me yeah he goes um you know it was a very traumatizing time he said you know what what happened to my money where is it where is it who's got it you
know where is it he was in he couldn't understand where it had gone he couldn't comprehend it you know it was digitized in this stock market thing uh he gambled
it and he lost it and uh he asked me to figure out what happened to I interestingly I told you my first job So, I obviously tried to figure out in
in order to answer him, I tried to um first go to university and I thought maybe they'll teach me how money works and what happened. Didn't get the
answers there, [laughter] you know. Um but the first job I got was as a tea boy in a company called TD Waterhouse and TD Waterhouse was the
stock broker that my father lost all his money in. Um and so I got a job as a tea boy there and I got promoted to stock broker and I figured out like what
happened to his account and his money and what he was invested in.
Um, wasn't Pets.com and uh No, it wasn't Pets.com. No, some of the UK stocks. [clears throat] Um,
but yeah, and and that's that's what really started um started my journey.
And so I I then got a job in the city of London as a market maker. Figured out how rigged stocks prices are. Um, and then started working in investment
banking where I learned how the game of war works. [laughter] Yeah.
Is it best just to treat this all as a game? Really?
Yes. Yes, I think so. Um, know the rules now to play them.
Exactly. Yeah, I think that is the thing. So, first thing is you got to understand the game.
Then you got to know the rules and then you got to win. And um you're not going to win by the old rules and um there's
no there's no amount of winging or moaning that's going to change. Yeah. Anything. Boohoo.
You have to you have to build the alternative. Put a helmet on. My style.
Yeah. Um but you know recognize and that's the only thing what can you do you got to recognize what is the unique
capabilities of the youth today where you were born you were born with a phone in your face we weren't you know I I
remember when I was at school we were doing pen and paper and then like when I when I got to university I was like taking the the the
interwebs user face [laughter] and I was printing it and putting it in my binder and folder. My dad writing notes on it, dude. My dad phoned me up this week.
He's still [laughter] doing it. He was like trying to print something. He was like, uh, Pete, the the text isn't coming out. And [laughter] I was like, what's the matter? And he was like, I'm
trying to print the instructions are Starink. I was like, is their website black? And he's like, yeah. I said the text is white. I was like, it doesn't print the background. And then I was
trying to help him connect it and talking him through it. By the way, this is a man who kept airplanes in the sky. He's aircraft engineer.
Um, and I was like, why are you printing the instructions? He said, "Well, I've got to send it back and I want to follow the instructions." I'm like, "Just follow them on screen." Yeah.
It's old school, man.
Yeah. [laughter] Yeah.
Yeah. [sighs] You know, and so, you know, laugh at the boomers. Yeah. They ended up with the assets. Yeah.
Um, and they get make make sure they get to keep them as well. Help them figure out some uh family planning and inheritance tax
efficiency. And so what if someone was listening like what would you say the most important rules are for this? Like
cuz there people listening go [ __ ] love Simon. He's so right. I'm playing this game. I'm in. I'm going to do it.
And there's other people I'd love to send this to and go the world you think you live in is not the world you live in. You think you live in this nice cozy
world where like politicians argue but like you know you can go and you can earn money and at some point you're going to retire in the future and you know you're going to see your grandkids
and like go to Spain every year and it's like that world is going.
You know if you're not prepared that world is being taken from you. You need to listen to this. You like what what would you say?
I'd say um I think there's a bit of a scop and I may even contribute to it of driving people to urgency. There is an
urgency, you know, but but I want you to put that in the context of there's a scop to make you believe that there's no future, that everything has to be done
now, that you have to get a 1,000x cryptocurrency to make your money. You know, everything's driving you towards
short-term short-term short urgent like the world's going to end. There is no bright future. What's the point? I might as well take on loads of debt right now.
Like it's only going to be, you know, that there's a scop to drive you there.
um and be as psychologically weak as possible. Weak mind, weak body, weak soul, weak spirit, you know, um algorithms radicalizing you into the
most radical version of you, like no tolerance for other ideologies. Like all of that's happening that that is a weapon that is being fired at you
constantly. And the counter to that is actually believing that I'm going to make a big difference in this world and I'm going to have a long-term plan
forever and the world is changing and I can help people change. Um, and if you can get there, I'm not saying that's
easy, you know, that's uh you you need to have that. If you look at every empire, even if it was a complete lie,
and I believe the American dream was a lie, you know, but it was a common shared belief that there was an American
dream and immigrants could come here and we could build and we could get a we could build a better future together.
And that psychology, that ideology, you know, whether it was a scop or not and whether you knew what was happening in the background, it it was that community
pirit of a shared belief around a good future. So, you need to have a good future for yourself. You've got your
whole life ahead of you. You've got the skills that people are going to really struggle with, you know, and and we are moving to a digital technical world and
you need to lean into that with everything you got. Um, and you need to um, if you're building a business, one
of the biggest mistakes I made in business is I didn't pay myself any income. Like I I didn't manage the numbers. You know, you were talking here
about losing property um, to real inflation. You really got to know your numbers. Like know your numbers. Know
the game that's being played. Get passionate about that. And AI can give you all the numbers now. You don't need like information is available to you.
You know, you need to understand basic finance and accounting and technology.
These are things that you've got to have. You know, what is a balance sheet?
How many assets do I have? Am I full of liabilities? What is cash flow? You know, what is my income? Can I get more income? Am I just dependent upon one?
And am I spending more than I get? You know, and you have to get to a stage wherever you are of spending less than
you earn, investing the difference. Now, I know that people talk about budgeting and it sounds like just oh yeah, you know, that was something for that used
to work and my costs aren't working. All of that's real. I'm not trying to minimize or undermine any of that. Um, but you need to know what a balance
sheet is. You need to know what cash flow is. And if you got a business, you need that on the business level and the personal level. One of the biggest
mistakes I made, I put everything in the business and fought regulators. um ended up blowing almost everything up. Like
had to make the second business work. Um and I had no income. I had nothing from it. I had a pile of debt. It was
disaster. Like I and and I would never I would never look at my balance sheet. I I would get letters of all this debt
that was coming in. I'd chuck them in the bin. I wouldn't look at them. But what one day I had to just say, "Look, what what is what is real here? I I need
some truth here. What is my current situation? I've got no income. I've got a business that's not working. Um I've
got uh letters and I owe this bank that money, that credit card that money, that that money. I owe, you know, I've got a
mortgage here and that mortgage, the interest rates are going up. That's putting up my expenses. I'm headed for bankruptcy if I don't sort this [ __ ] out, you know. So, I had to get real.
[laughter] Once it was real, I was able to put together a plan. Um and I think that's what people need to face. You
need a plan for now based upon the world as it is today. Um, and you need to elongate your time frame to say, I've
got to there is a bright future. Um, it could be really dark for the majority of people. Maybe everyone, you know, but
but what is my role in that? What am I going to do in that? And that's the only choice you have. You're either going to own nothing and be happy. You're either going to be corrupted by the system or you're going to take your own keys.
You're going to take your own, you know, your skills and you're going to you're going to get as much income as possible and then you're going to invest a
difference in assets. And you're not going to do that where you say, I need to make a million in the next month.
You're just going to say, I need to bring in more income than I spend. I need to buy some assets, even if it's £10.
You need to do that every month. And you need to do that for 10,000 months until you die. There you go. There's the answer. Yeah.
and until you die cuz you need to be able to pass this on to other people if the government doesn't take it all
[sighs]
man. Anything we [clears throat] and have some have some children and build a better future for them as well. Get in your community.
Yeah. Yeah. And and that's the other thing, right? I'm talking big geopolitical macro. We haven't even covered war and all the crazy things that happening in the world. But in your
reality, like get right back down to your reality. There's a phrase which I really believe in like touch grass. the the world is a lot worse on the screen than it is in the garden.
It really is. It's a lot worse, dude. We just went out to Italy. Uh we had nine days in Italy and we just
rented a little villa and we would go out to little restaurants and we'd stay in and cook barbecue and just hang out.
And it was kind of like a like a stark reminder of how lovely the world is when you disconnect from uh from the screens.
Yeah.
You just be together, you know, connect with people, spend time together with the people you love, laugh and joke, have By the way, Italyy's I don't know how you ever go to Italy. It's amazing.
You get four euro bottle of procco. That is unbelievable. The food's incredible. And we adopted a cat.
Yeah, we adopted a cat. We found a stray cat.
And uh we fed it and it liked us so we adopted it and brought it home with us. Yeah. It was beautiful.
More of that, man. Yeah. You know, and that's that's contribution. These are these are the basic things in life. Like once you get past the basic needs, you
know, it's the it's the spirit. It's the contribution. It's growth. Um and and there is so much opportunity to grow and
learn and just just see the world for for what it actually is. Don't ignore how like the bad things because you have to help the
stray cat, you know? I I don't like I don't like going into a utopia where you you kind of ignore everything that's bad in the world. I think you have to get that ying and yang, right?
Yeah.
There is a ying and yang. I think the person that just says, "I only care about myself. Um, I'm going to make as much money as possible." You you need
that for half of your life, but the other half of life, you actually need to recognize SW's pretty [ __ ] up and we got to make a difference here, you know, and getting that ying and yang right,
you know, you can't understand good until you can understand evil. You can't understand light until you can understand dark. Um, you you you have to
you have to recognize that that is a part of the world and uh and getting in that balance right. Um and one thing I
have in in my most um uh in my journey of trying to understand
like um you know the the more I the more I helped others and contributed to
others those were the the moments when I actually got the most back but it wasn't
it wasn't from a moment of I need to perform form this role of I'm a good person, I'm a charitable person,
therefore I'm going to tell everyone what I'm doing. I think there's a there's a there's a there's a law in the world where when you give from the
perspective of not trying to meet your your ego needs, not performing the role.
Um I think in my experience, every time I've done that, it comes back many many times over and rewards you. Um, so I
think there's I think there's something in getting that ying and yang right. Um, and understanding good and evil. Um, and just embracing it.
Amazing. We got a double interview day today, so we can't go for 3 hours like [laughter] we normally do. Uh, Simon,
always a pleasure. Um, I definitely understand you a lot more [laughter] now. That story about your dad's incredible. Um, keep doing what you're doing. Everyone's going to love this.
People buy Bitcoin. Understand the world. Be sovereign. Understand your keys. Love you all. See you all soon. Peace out. Thanks.
￼

