Chapter 1: The US strategic shift
Hi everyone and welcome back. Today is October 4, 2026 and we have the great pleasure of being joined by Jang Shu
Chin, uh the extremely popular host of Predictive History and I've uh left a link in the description. So, thank you for coming back on the program.
Thanks, Lamb.
Um so the United States after well 30 years of pursuing a strategy based on
global primacy we um we see that uh well the US has been exhausted u it's also
been overstretched and we see the other great powers or even large powers collectively balanced United States. It
seemed for a while that Trump was recognized this. He was communicating this and essentially the solution made sense. He was talking about fiscal
discipline uh cutting the waste, ending all of these wars. So I would say to some extent uh remarkable consistency.
However, this uh spectacular change of Trump is interesting. He doesn't preach this anymore. The the debt is going, you
know, through the roof. uh his all the things he initially began to cut seems to have come back the wars I mean the
Ukraine war he owns now Iran it was completely unnecessary to start to begin
with how do you see this uh switch in the United States what what does that tell you about the the political system
because this is a something that yeah is making a lot of people quite curious how how this happens
Chapter 2: Emerging geopolitical factions
Well, I would say that right now we are almost experiencing a revolution around
the world. Um, and there are certain factions that have rallied around Trump and they were trying to establish a new
world order. Um, so I'll just list um some of the factions and how this is manifesting in geopolitics.
So one conflict that we are experiencing right now around the world is that between uh the globalists and the
nationalists and um so you may know of the recent trade war between Canada and United
States. Mark Carney who was prime minister of Canada is proposing a new trade alliance
um between Europe and Canada that um circumvents the US-led uh trade alliance
and the United States under Trump is trying to establish better relations with Russia and China. So what's what
will happen over next few years is the world will divide between the old global order um basically Canada
uh Europe um the the Britain um and a new Trump-led world order um
where the three main powers are United States, China and Russia. And we're
already seeing this play out because of Mark Carney uh his um his desire to
promote a new trade block. Okay, that's um um one sort of um um source of
friction in the world. Another is um the
uh war between the um central banking uh and the uh tech bro oligarchs in Silicon
Valley. And so what's been happening is that Trump has been pro promoting the
interest of AI companies um such as um Open AI and Nvidia. And what they want
to do is establish a new um financial monitor system based on digital ID and
digital currency that circumvents the old central banking model of money
printing. Um and then you have um the secular um people versus the religious
people. And we're seeing that play out in the Middle East where um Israel is trying to achieve the greater good
project and it is trying um to promote a Zionist agenda around the world. So um
there are three major factions right now rallying behind uh Trump. The nationalists, the AI oligarchy, and the
uh Zionist. And that's why we're seeing a lot of conflicts throughout the world.
And it's best to understand Trump's decision making um in that light.
Yeah. No, it's interesting you break down to the different groups because within that camp there appears to be Yeah. Not not everyone on the same page
while they essentially have some different motivations. Uh about the globalist versus nationalist. I I always recommend this. I know I've done before,
but the Samuel Huntington, the the political scientist, he wrote this article, Dead Souls, on the denationalization of the American elite
back in 2004. Again it's been 22 years but he essentially argued that America's elite was so becoming so detached from
the nation and national interests that their essentially their circle will look at well global institutions markets this
cosmopolitan nature and that's effectively where you know their their interest and the heart would lie and
this is why he said America will split and also the world between nationalist and the globalist
and the elites would be as it become more detached, you know, one can assume that uh this uh this would be fertile
soil for the populist. Um but you see similar developments in in Europe though. Uh again we don't in Europe they
don't have the you know the tech bros or the silist lobby isn't as strong but uh how do you explain Europe because
uh again if I would argue or define it it's hard to see how the leaders of France Germany or even the UK pursue
their basic national interest which is largely reflected in their polling right um so to better understand this um
globalist nationalist conflict and hard to Europe. Let's use the case study of Canada. So there's reporting right now
Chapter 3: Canada as a geopolitical study
that we've operatives um basically Trump loyalist are in two provinces Albert and Quebec formenting separatist movements.
Um, so what they're trying to do is trying to rally these nationalistic energies in Canada in order to undermine
the authority of the federal government, uh, led by Mark Carney. Um, Mark Carney's response to this American
provocation is to target certain red states with tariffs um, that hurt their economy. and he's
hoping that by doing this, not only does he undermine uh the Trump mega base, but uh he he's al also hoping to tilt the midterms in favor of the Democrats.
Okay. So, Canada provides a very good case study of how this um war between the globalist and nationalists will
eventually play out in Europe. Right? So you have so in other words what I think is happening is that you have Trump
aligned um political factions throughout Europe um basically in a place like
Hungary, Austria uh Poland and then you have these um nationalistic parties uh
in in in Western Europe the AFT Vox Mer Pence party and they're trying to
capture um government and promote a more nationalistic agenda. And obviously they'll be supported by Trump. Um and
then on the other hand you have these globalists and the globalists right now are the um current government, the
current regime throughout Europe. Um and they want to maintain the status quo.
The best way to maintain the status quo is to continue this war in Ukraine.
um and Britain, France, Germany are committed to extending this war um in Ukraine. So
there are different points of friction between these two camps. I would say the war in Ukraine is the main source of friction within Europe at this point.
But how so though? Why why would that uh extend their cost? that is to keep this war going because it seems as if this is
something that could sink the entire uh European project.
Yeah, that's a really um interesting question. So um I think that these different global factions are fighting
over um interests, right? So these different factions are supported by different uh interest groups. And so um
if we look at the war Ukraine, clearly there are certain European interests that benefit from this war including uh
defense companies uh the basically the material military-industrial complex of Europe. And um so by kiding this war,
the globalists are trying to um benefit their own vested interests and that and
so really um they don't really care if this war is won or lost. They just want to continue this war because it benefits their constituencies.
You did mention the US possibly p pushing for uh well secessionism in Canada. Again, if I would well if you
look towards what they did with the Greenland, it kind of was a similar logic there. You don't need to annex Greenland. If you can first step to push
for Greenland to secede from Denmark than if they stand alone, it would be much easier to get what you want. I
mean, if I was Trump looking at Canada, I would look at Quebec. I would look at Alberta thinking that um you know, this
would be vulnerable region in terms of uh some secessionist movements. Did you see uh kind of this being the pathway
pushing for them to secede and then not divide and yeah more or less divide and rule and then seek to get some better deals for the United States?
Chapter 4: US influence and sovereignty
Yeah. So um Trump is very clear about his intentions um via v Canada as you
point out um Trump has been singing for the longest time that he wants to take over Greenland and and recently um the
United States in Denmark signed a treaty that basically gave the United States factor control over Greenland. So, um,
if Trump says something, then I think he means it. And, um, Alberta, uh, is home
to a lot of energy resources in the United States. Um, wants control over those those resources. Also, um, a few
months ago, Trump promoted something called the Donro doctrine, which is a corollery to the Monroe Doctrine. And
basically the idea is the United States sees the entire Western Hemisphere as um vital to US national strategic
interests. And so um the trade war between Canada and United States, it's not really a trade war. It's a war over
sovereignty. So basically the United States wants to control who Canada can trade with, specifically China. and Mark
Carney um has expressed that that is unacceptable. Uh Canada will maintain its sovereignty and it will it will
trade with whoever it chooses to trade with. Um and so um this trade war is really one of n is one over uh is one
over national sovereignty and um so um we can expect this trade war to continue
and to escalate and the best way to undermine uh Canada's national sovereignty of course is to forment
separatist movement in Alberta and in Quebec. Quebec is interesting because
for decades uh the Quebec have um have tried to achieve independence. Uh
Alberta is right now suffering from this trade war. Um and we can expect that as
this trade war increases and the separatist settlements in Alberta will only increase. Right now, polling shows
that about a quarter at most, maybe 20% of our burdens support independence. This is not to unite with the United States.
This is just to succeed from um the u from the Canadian Confederation. Um actually, we don't even know that is
legally possible. But the idea is that Trump is a chaos maker and he just wants
um Albertans to try to succeed and then this will allow Trump um to apply pressure on the Canadian government.
Well, I guess once if he's able once will Canada been broken, he could pick up some of the some of the pieces. Well, it's hard to say if it will succeed, but
it seems to be a common theme in the Western Hemisphere from Greenland, Canada, uh Cuba,
the Panama Canal, Venezuela. There's uh you also hear a lot of arguments that uh there's a lot of interference into the politics of the Latin American states.
So, the US appears to be trying to strengthen its hold over Latin America.
Do you see this as being feasible though in the in the long run?
So if we have evidence that Republican operatives uh Trump loyalists are in Alberta and Quebec fermenting separatist
movement then we have a lot of reasons to suspect that uh there are agents throughout Latin and South America as
well. Right now there are the Brazilian elections and we can expect that um there are Trump people um throughout um
Brazil uh trying to um um create create election results
that favor Trump. Um you know Max Bernthal has reporting that there are uh Trump agents throughout u Latin America
um specifically El Salvador. So um we we we have to expect that um there are
Trump loyalists not only just throughout the Western Hemisphere but also throughout Europe that are trying to forment more nationalistic uh parties
because these parties are more sympathetic towards a Trump worldview.
Yeah, indeed. In the national security strategy of the United States, it outright states that the the US should help to reverse the problems of of uh Europe.
They see this as being a globalist decline of Europe. It won't look the same or exist in 20 years. So to save Europe, you essentially need regime
change here and there. So that seems to be well again it sounds outlandish but based on what they're stating what
they're putting down in their strategic documents and what they're doing they they seem to follow this logic. Uh but
while there you can argue successes in the western hemisphere the Iran war isn't going though as planned. uh how do
you see though this war fitting into the US strategy and uh well how is it changing it or changing the world?
Chapter 5: The Middle East power dynamic
Right. So if you look at the national security strategy very carefully um it calls for the United States um to
retreat from the world and create a situation in which these different regions are in conflict with each other.
So imagine a scenario where in Europe the Europeans are fighting the Russians.
In East Asia, the Chinese are fighting the Japanese and their allies, the Filipinos, the Indians, the Australians.
And in the Middle East, Israel and the GCC are fighting Iran and their proxies.
Well, in that s in that situation, uh the west wester hemisphere becomes a fortress that provides the world with
the financing, the resources, the armaments necessary in order for them to continue these conflicts. And this is a
very situation very similar to uh right before World War II. And so um it seems
to me that given the what's happening in the Middle East, specifically Saudi Arabia going to war against Houthies,
um then things are going according to the national security strategy plan and um this conflict in the Middle East
directly benefits the United States because number one, it's cutting off Cube Energy supplies to the world and so
Europe Well, Japan, South Korea are increasingly dependent on US energy. Um,
number two is that um because the GCC is
at war, it it is increasingly reliant on Israel and the United States uh for military assistance, giving Trump
tremendous leverage. Um and number three is that this war in the Middle East, it
is hurting the Chinese economy by a great deal because China relies on a lot of cheap energy imports from the GCC.
And so um this allows Trump to pressure uh China even greater. So I mean just
from a Trump perspective, maybe not from a US perspective, but from a Trump perspective, this war in the Middle East is going according plan.
But at some point though the the defeat wouldn't that cost him his uh political also support and foundation in the
United States and the and the I guess yeah the the energy cost as well they would become difficult for the Americans
as well or I don't know the Americans strike me as uniquely rebellious you know if you have high energy prices in Europe they get angry
but in the United States uh yeah it's um I don't know yeah rebellious this is a good word for it,
right? Okay. So, you're absolutely right and that polling shows that most American voters are very annoyed at this war in the Middle East which is causing
diesel prices to go up and because um the United States is a car driven
economy. Uh this affects everyone in the United States. And so in theory what
should happen is that in the midterms the Democrats sweep both the House of Representatives and the Senate. they
apply pressure on Trump to end this war in Iran. Um, history tells us a different story. Number one is that for
the past 20 years, the United States has fought these forever wars in the Middle East with no political repercussions in
the United States. I mean, the United States lost the war in Iraq, lost the war in Afghanistan, spent trill
trillions of dollars losing these wars, and there was absolutely no consequences
um in uh American electoral politics. In fact, no one was ever prosecuted or
charged for this bad policym in the Middle East. So it seems that the American people are insulated from the consequences of the American empire.
Okay, that's point number one. Point number two is um if you look at um how
US politicians behave, especially Congress people, they don't actually represent the interests of voters. They represent the interests of donors. The
reason why is that uh Congress people go to Congress not to serve US national interests, but because once they're in
Congress and they retire, they can they can they can they can then become lobby lobbyists uh for the military industry
complex or for these AI companies for Wall Street and make millions of dollars doing so. So the way that communist
people behave is maybe um during election they uh voice very nice
rhetoric when they go to Congress they do nothing because they don't want to piss off donors and voters and then when
they uh leave office they just become lobbyists and that's why um even though this war against Iran has been going has
been ongoing since March Congress has never forced a vote on this war because
Congress people do not want a record of their vote on this war. Um so that's
point number two. Point number three is what ultimately decides elections nowadays um are is not voter settlement.
This is not uh polling. It is dark money. So if you look at uh Thomas Massie, he lost his primary um even
though he was an extremely popular um incumbent um in Kentucky. He knew his voters. He was very loyal to his voters.
He was very popular amongst his voters.
But there were three individuals, Miam Adlesen, um U John Paulson, Paul Singer, who by the way were not even residents
of Kentucky. They poured in $30 million of dark money into the primary to defeat
Massie and they won. So there's something about the US political system.
Um and it's game a certain way that benefits certain donors and so what we should be looking at are the political
interests of these donors as opposed to polling or US national security interests.
But you you see the the economic uh focus on on both sides. It is that is the the US is now pushing for this
economic strangulation of Iran and again they do have tools at their disposal and uh you know the the Iranian economy is
in is you know experiencing a lot of pain. At the same time though you see on the American side you have a brewing
financial crisis. uh the the economy isn't doing too well. Uh how how do you see this playing out? Because uh you
know if if something would happen to the Gulf States as well, that's a lot of money which would have which is used to
keep to finance the US bond market to keep the AI bubble afloat. I mean there seems to be a lot at stake here. How do
you see this playing out? Uh you know which which one would come out uh you know on top?
Chapter 6: The Saudi-Houthi escalation
Yeah. So if you look at how these major wars start, it's never started by the powers um it always started by marginal
actors that are allied to these great powers. The classic example of course is World War I where uh it was really
started in Serbia. Um if you go back to to the Pelibian war, it was not started by Athens and Sparta. It was started by
their allies in the margins. And we're seeing a very similar dynamic today in the Middle East where the real conflict is not between United States and Iran.
It seems as though um they've reach an equilibrium uh where it's a major standoff. The real problem is the war
emerging between the Houthis and the Saudis. So um there's a huge problem because the Saudis see the Houthies as
an exentious threat to its existence and and and for the past 10 years the Saudis have tried many ways of defeating the
Houthies including trying to starve them. Um so the Houthies um are a huge
problem for the Saudis. The Houthies can with their drones and ballistic missiles attack Saudi energy infrastructure, the
pipelines, the oil refineries, the dissolation plants, and there's nothing the Saudis can do about it. Recently, the Saudis have signed something called
the Mecca Accords, which means that uh Turkey, Pakistan, and Saudi Arabia are
committed to each other's defense. And because of um the Houthi attacks on
Saudi energy infrastructure, the Saudis have invoked the mecca. And so what's
happening is uh Saudi Arabia and the UAE have asked the Yemen government to launch a massive offensive against the
Houthis. the Pakistanis are sending troops to guard um Saudi Arabia energy
infrastructure and so this will spont
uh both Iran and the United States are state actors and they are constrained by
uh jubil political interests can uh China and Russia can always restrain Iran from going too far.
The Houthies are completely different matter. The Houthies are a non-state actor and um they have this messenic
fever uh fe favor to them. They hate the Saudis and and when they're attacked
then they will do whatever they can to defend themselves. So I see this situation as spawning out of control
very very quickly. Um and this will probably drag in all the great powers at some point.
Yeah. Know the Houthi issue is quite interesting because well I can understand the Saudi dilemma. On one hand you know if they give in to the
demands of one want to put an end to this peace with Houthis then they have to end the blockade on Yemen. But if
they do that, the the Houthis will grow very strong. If they don't, the Houthis will put continue their blockade on the
Saudis and the Saudis might, you know, actually collapse if this continues for too long. So, it is an interesting I'm
not sure how they're supposed to get out of this. Uh, do you think it's No, they're trapped. The Saudis are facing
um a credibility issue where if they make any compromises they'll be seen as weak and Saudi Arabia fancy fancy itself
as leader of Islamic world because uh first of all it's very very wealthy but also it's home to Mecca and Medina. So
um Saudi Arabia cannot be seen as backing off or compromising or seen weak against the Houthies. And quite honestly
um Saudi Arabia under uh its current leader uh Muhammad bin Salman MBS he's a
very arrogant person and he believes that um if they just go all out against
um the Houthies and the Houthies will fold because ultimately these are tribes people with sailboats and the Saudis
have you know fighter jets F-35s they have the most advanced US technology And
if the situation gets uh bad for the Saudis, then the Americans will be compelled to come into the war just
because um the Saudi Arabia is the big basis of the petro dollar. If Saudi Arabia falls, so does the petro dollar.
And this would lead to as you point out an AI bubble collapse in the United States. It would lead to possibly a sovereign debt crisis in the United
States as well because because the Saudis buy a lot of US treasuries. So um um if we were to say 100 years from now
look at how and where World War II started, I would say it will probably we would probably focus on the Houthi Saudi conflict.
World War II could start with Yemen essentially. Yes.
Well, um but but it's it doesn't Well, if the United States would decide to well, they recognize this. They see
what's happening. They can't afford Saudi Arabia to fall. They know the Saudis can't win this on their own. What could they do though? Because they already tried uh taking out the Houthis
in Yemen a year ago. Uh and it didn't work. Uh did you think a ground invasion could be coming? If so, only Yemen or
would this this would have to be coordinated with something against Iranians as well, right? If you look at um the
geopolitical map of the Middle East um the Saudi Arabia it's in a lot of trouble okay because like let's just say
Saudi Arabia is to is able to muster a multinational force comprising of uh the Egyptians uh the Turks the Pakistanis
I'm saying in an ideal situation right they have like half a million troops surrounding the uh um the the Houthis
well now then this force is surrounded by the Iranians and their proxies, right? He Hzbalahan and Iran provide an
alter siege against this force. And so they're basically pinned down. And so if Saudi Arabia were to move against
Houthies, then um the United States would have actually no choice but to commit ground to commit ground troops to
try to pin down Iran. And so what Trump has discussed is a possibility that after the midterms he has nothing to lose. Right? Those those are the exact
words. I have nothing to lose at the midterms because the Democrats are going to take the house. So I have two years.
I can do whatever I want. Right? And as president I can order a ground invasion of Iran. It's most likely um given how
Trump does these military adventures, he will try for a very quick win. And that
could mean trying to take Car Island, trying to occupy uh Kasam Island, uh
trying to uh move forces into on into Pigax Mountain. Okay. But it will start off as a very limited
um tactical military maneuver um and but then it will escalate into um
a full-scale ground invasion. And that that's exactly what we saw in Vietnam where uh the war started when 2,000
Marines landed and Dagnam uh air force base hoping to take the airport and then like 2 three years later you have half a million troops in Vietnam.
Chapter 7: Israel and regional instability
How again if you look at the whole Middle East exploding uh you can't really do it without uh also taking into
account Israel. uh how are you reading this situation the the split between the United States and Israel as many people
point out this is uh the language is being used especially by people like JD Vance of it it's quite remarkable also
the public this well standing of u Israel among among the public in the United States it's also falling very
quickly uh do you see you see a split around the road here or again it's hard
again to predict because this is a very much a black swan moment. It seem I haven't seen this kind of criticism come
from the US against Israel before. At the same time, the US is also following Israel. Uh so it's again it's hard to
read, right? If you look at the Jubilee chessboard in the Middle East, there's only one country that benefits from any of this and it's Israel. And Israel is
consistently benefiting from this. So right now the United States is in conflict um against Iran and Saudi Arabia is in conflict against the
Houthis. Israeli Israeli politicians people like uh Ben Smolich
have said publicly that Israel will not involve itself in either of these conflicts. Um it will not uh help the
United States against Iran. Um at the same time uh you look at the timeline.
It's interesting in that right before Saudi Arabia uh announced an offensive
against the Houthis, Ben Netanyahu visited the UAE.
It was a secret meeting. We don't know what happened. What we know is that for Saudi Arabia to get the Yemen government to move against Houthies, they also
needed the support of the UAE. Right? So it would you can make the argument that even though Israel is not involved in
any conflicts directly uh Israel is working behind the scenes to make these conflicts possible. Right?
So remember like um when the conflict between the Houthies and the Saudis first started when the Houthies started
to occupy the Red Co the Red Sea coast um Saudi Arabia appealed for help from
for uh appealed for help from the Israelis and Israeli said sure um but as long as you normalize relations. So I
think that things are moving a way that directly benefit Israel and which and I think that you can make argument that
Israel is working behind the scenes to make of conflict in the Middle East uh much more salient
if we well u well let's step back from that the region if we yeah shift a
little bit north into Syria how do you see this fit into a wider game here because there seems to be, you know, seems to be melting down uh quite fast.
No one seems to be able to stop it.
Again, it's not destined to fall apart, but uh instability seems to be spreading and uh the ability of Golani to hold the
whole thing together or sorry, Alshara seems to be also declining quite fast.
Uh again, it it could be reversed, but how um how do you see the future of Syria here?
Right. So, um if you look at the greater Israel project, um what the map entails,
Syria is a very integral part of it. And as you pointed out, there have been lots of protests throughout um Syria. And it
looks as though that uh al- Sharah will have difficulties keeping the country together. Um and the instability
directly benefits um Israel. So you can make the argument that the ultimate endgame is the great project and Israeli
operatives are working across the Middle East to destabilize um all the different governments. So if
you look at the United States, we know that Apac controls many politicians. They've co-opted a lot of politicians not only
in Washington DC but also in state capitals.
Wh if the Zionists were able to penetrate US domestic politics, um why couldn't they penetrate uh the
governments of the Middle East? Why couldn't they blackmail and co-opt the governments of the Middle East and cause a lot of instability there? So um I
think that ultimately everything is moving towards the achievement of the greater Israel project throughout the Middle East.
Chapter 8: Europe's decline and Ukraine
Well, if we pivot a bit uh to towards Europe, how do you see this uh uh you know, within the context of uh of this
massive Trump switch, as I started saying in the beginning, Trump has, you know, one of the main foreign policy objectives he had was to put an end to
the Ukraine war in 24 hours, but uh he appears to abandoned uh that project altogether. That is uh you know, it
seems to be an a Trump war now. they, you know, they are not just extending sanctions, they're putting new ones,
they're sending weapons. And uh again, if you listen to the likes of Marco Rubio, they're expressing hopes that uh
that the strikes deep inside Russia would well be a gamecher. Uh you see the
you know the seizing of ships, Russian ships which they are now relabeled um yeah shadow fleet. uh you see the
pressures put on Khalenrad. Uh all of this you know seem to create a lot of optimism in Washington but now of course
the Russians have uh begun to respond in a yeah quite a forceful way especially if we look at Kiev. Uh how how do you
explain what Trump has been doing here and where is this headed?
So if we go back to the Trump first term, um in the first term it was clear that
Trump gone very well with Vlamir Putin and Kim Jun of North Korea and President
Xiinping of China and his main adversary in his first term was Europe. In fact,
you can make the argument that Europe worked very closely with the Democratic Party um to ensure that Trump would lose
the 2020 election. There's a lot of evidence suggests that the British specifically was providing a lot of aid
to the Democratic Party. If you go back to 2016, there's something called the Steel Dossier.
Um, Christopher Steel was an MI6 agent, retired supposedly, who provided um a
lot of uh of like intelligence to to Hillary Clinton about Trump's relationship with Vladimir Putin. Now,
we know a lot of this evidence was fabricated, right? So, if you are Donald Trump, you see your real global
adversary not as Russia or China, but as Europe. Um and and you know when Trump
first came into power in the second term, he met with Putin in Alaska and he was trying to negotiate
um an end to this conflict between Europe and between sorry between Ukraine and Russia. It seems as though the
Europeans went out of their way to sabotage any peace negotiations.
And so, um, if you're Donald Trump, basically your best strategy moving forward is, you know what, I'm going to wash my hands off this conflict. If the
European want to go destroy themselves against Russia, then let them do so. You know, you were at um, uh, Valdai and and
Putin at the conference did say, look, we will not move against the Europeans because the Europeans will just end up destroying themselves. You look at the protests in uh, France, that's clear.
This is clearly what's happening. Um it seems as though all of Europe uh Western Europe is on the brink of a civil war or
or some form of civil unrest. They turn to question like who who breaks first?
Is it Britain or is it France? Um where civil war first breaks out. What we know historically is that when you have um
these protests and riots at the scale that we see in France, the governments tend to divert people's attention
externally. So we can expect this conflict between Ukraine and Russia to ramp up. We can also expect conflict
between Europe and Russia to ramp up. So this August, Germany claimed that Russia
launched a drone strike against an airport in Leb um and as a result uh Germany uh kicked out uh some Russian
ambassadors. And so we can expect over the next few months this sort of thing to continue where um the Europeans are
blaming drone incursions um uh and and blame it blame it on the Russians and the rhetoric against Russia
will only uh increase and the United States will just sit back and let the Europeans dig their own grave. That's what I think is most likely to happen.
It doesn't seem to make much sense though this new the militarism of these Europeans. I heard someone recently referred to it as militarism without a
military. I mean there's no real conceivable way they can defeat the Russians. And indeed none of the these
European leaders have described what how this would be defined. How would you defeat the world's largest nuclear power? They don't even say how
this war would be fought. Uh it's just uh yeah very unclear vague references to about
fighting Russia. Uh they're of course insinuating that they they would defend themsel that Russia's coming for them
but to to what extent is this you know chest beating for a domestic audience or do you think they could actually go all
the way and um pursue a war with the Russian Federation?
I think we're moving towards a full-scale war uh between Europe, NATO, and Russia. Um and at the same time,
we're seeing uh widespread social unrest throughout um Western Europe. The
reality is that right now Europe is led by Buffoons. If you look at Emil, I have actually no idea how was able to send
power for the past 10 years. He is historically one of the most unpopular leaders in France. If you talk to his
enemy's classmates at university at the Saborn um they would tell you this man was a dunce. He was a We have
actually no idea how he became president of France and France under his leadership has fallen apart. So um I
don't know how Europe has gotten this situation but it's clear that um the European leaders are incompetent. They
don't know what they're doing. They have no grandic vision. They continue to dig a bigger hole for themselves and they
refuse to churn course even though uh it seems that right now Europe is heading towards suicide. So even if this
conflict um against Russia uh would not materialize uh Europe still is suffering
from an aging crisis, is still suffering from an economic uh collapse. It's still suffering from immigration issues.
Um and there's really no way out for Europe right now. I mean Europe is um dead and walking basically.
Chapter 9: Political leadership and crisis
Yeah. Yeah, I'm always shocked they're not walking any of this back. It's uh they keep to go straight forward even though there's no convincing pathway
here. Um but uh again, do you see the same elite problem then as in the United States? Uh is it simply desperation?
They don't have because at least Americans have somewhat of an economic model still. The Europeans do not. Uh I
I just uh yeah, how do you explain this again? I don't disagree, Macron. I mean, it's amazing that he's been ruling France for
so long, but you see, in in Germany, the the pulse is immersed. Nobody asked for it. No, nobody wants it. He his uh
approval ratings are just awful. And in Britain, they accepted having a change in leadership yet again. But, uh,
effectively, it's a clone of Star. So, it's not that much of a difference. Uh so how is it that these policies remain so
consistent though even though pe the people it doesn't seem to reject it on a massive scale
right so um I think the best way to understand what's going on is to understand the demographic crisis in the
western world so if you look at the average age of these politicians if you
just look at um who has all the money, the power and the status. These are really old people. Um, so in United
States, um, you have in the Senate people like Mitch McConnell who is essentially brain dead. Um, you have,
um, Chuck Grassley who's 92 years old and he's still working in the Senate. So, uh, Donald Trump is 80 years old.
And we know about old people is like uh the older they get uh first of all uh
they lack an imagination. Uh their brain function decreases.
This is this is counterintuitive because you we've been taught in school like the older you get the more wise the more strategic you become. Right? That's not
true at all. If you actually meet these people um you actually talk to these people they're very slow and they have
absolutely no imagination. And the other thing is that they're very very stubborn. And also what people don't appreciate is the older people get, the
more authoritarian they become. They refuse to listen to other opinions. They refuse
to appreciate the diversity of viewpoint and they're very stuck in a certain way and they're perfectly happy and willing
to sacrifice their entire society in order to maintain their worldview and that's what we're hap we're seeing
throughout the world where um the United States has clearly lost this war in Iran. The only people who actually support this stupid war are baby
boomers. And why? because the baby baby boomers do not want to live in a world where America is not on top. And so I
don't think the midterms will go the way people expect because we know during these midterms it's usually baby boomers who come out to vote and young people
don't come out to vote. And so it's it's a target possible the Republicans keep control over Congress in which case uh
Trump is emboldened to launch a ground invasion uh against Iran. The same in Europe where these European baby boomers
do not want to live in a world where Russia is ascended and where Europe is inclined. They're will happy to
sacrifice the young of Europe in order to maintain their prejudices. That's is exactly what happened in World War I.
Let me just ask yeah last question here that is if you know take a few steps back if you're the United States or the
political west here you want to sustain global primacy you know I would think of three major targets you have to you know
weaken or destroy you would want Russia down China at least scale it back and Iran as a you know at the southern end
of the Irasian continent obviously the Russian war hasn't gone as planned And uh the yeah I don't think it can be
denied anymore that the Russians are moving towards victory in Iran.
Obviously as you said that that is also not going as planned and uh also the conflict against China. China is well it
was the all the sanctions put on it. It seems to be able to roll with the punches. It continues to grow. It's uh
competitive. H how do you see how do you see this how will this move forward
because uh it's again the the the defeats uh or failed attempts they don't seem to have deterred uh the US and the
Europeans yet but uh with every with every effort it weakens the west as well
and it only cements uh the deepening determination and partnership between these centers of power. Where do you see this headed? Of course, we can't know.
You know, something could happen in Iran tomorrow and all of these things the game changer could emerge in Ukraine,
although very unlikely. But, uh, where do you see this headed at the time being?
So, um, empires all decline for a reason. The reason is hubris. And so
maybe you and I agree that the cubical map does not favor the United States and
Europe, but they don't know that. Um if you um they live in their own bubbles and they have their own metrics to
determine how the war is going. So if you look at this war in Iran, um there's been reporting
um in Stars and Stripes, which is basically the official media of the US military, that there's a lot of
discontent um that a lot of that there's a lot of morale breakdown on these air aircraft carriers because they've been
deployed for so long, specifically Abraham Lincoln. In response to this reporting, what uh Peter Hex did was
fire the editor of the stars and stripes for reporting the truth. So um again, if
you just look at things objectively, um then things aren't going well for the empire and the United States should make
some compromises. But unfortunately uh the response from the empire is not to
reflect and make necessary changes. The response of the empire is really to shut up its critics to silence all possible
disscent. We're seeing that throughout um the US military and that's why I think that the United States is heading
towards disaster in Iran. if if it's heading towards disaster in Iran, then the United States just will not have the
energy to deal with either Russia or China in the future.
And uh well, sorry, I have one last question. in in um in Europe as you know General Keith Kellogg and others make
Mitt Romney, Vincent Graham, Mitch McConnell all of them has made very clear is uh that uh you know this is a good war because you
can weaken Russia without losing a single US soldier that is or Kellogg says you know we we can we can win this
with Ukrainians and focus on China. So um so they have that frontline state they've been building since 2014. Uh in
the Middle East they've been able to use their their Gulf allies to you know to bear the brunt of the Iranian retaliation.
Uh again all these frontline states which used to have full security now they realize that there's a target on them. That's the that's the thought in
in yeah the Gulf States is increasingly thinking in Europe. Uh but we haven't seen anything play out in East uh Asia yet though. I know that from South Korea
and Japan there's some concerns that the Americans might put a target on them in might not actually be there to save
them. Uh but uh but uh do you see any possibility of something similar playing out there like the Japanese being put up
for a fight with the Chinese or Yeah, I mean it's clearly happening, right? So um um so US sorry relations
Chapter 10: Future risks in East Asia
between China and Japan are at their lowest in five five years. Reason why is
that prime minister uh Sonai Takayachi of Japan have said that Taiwan is core
to Japan's uh national interest and this caused a huge diplomatic ferror and um
basically China is trying to embargo Japan u um and I don't think this
relation will get any better. Japan um is now remilitarizing very quickly in in in anticipation that the United States
will withdraw from the Asia Pacific forcing conflict between um China and Japan over the South China Sea. Japan is
now allying with the Philippines, Australia and India to counter the
threat of a rising uh China. So conflict between China and Japan it's clearly on
the horizon. Um China has announced a mass mobilization uh program. China has
also announced a exit ban u um so it's um IT talent it's AI talent is not able
to leave the country. Um and um and recently in May uh the Chinese president
seeing visited North Korea. So I think the most likely scenario for uh East
Asia is that China will use North Korea as a proxy against Japan while Japan tries to build an alliance uh to embargo
China. And I think that this conflict will can only heat up over the next uh few months or next few years. Uh it's
very easy for North Korea to lobby missiles in the Sea of Japan which will freak out the Japanese. Um it is very
easy for North Korea to threaten South Korea because most of the Korean population in uh in is in Seoul and Soul
is within like a 20 minute uh uh range of North Korean artillery. So um I think
that the next major global flash will be in um East Asia and I think it will involve North Korea.
using nuclear weapons as well or is that not required?
No. So um I think it's a it's a nature of this current stage in um the crisis for these countries to
flex against each other right u nuclear weapons will only use as a last resort meaning it is entirely possible the
country collapses or um uh the country will be overrun. We have to remember that in in in what will
happen over next five years politically a lot of the conflict will be internal.
Okay. So a lot of the conflict will be domestic unrest, global revolution, civil war. We're already seeing that in
France, right? So again and Vladimir Putin said it best. I don't have to do anything because the Europeans will destroy themselves, right? So the Russia will not go and and conquer Europe.
what's going to happen is that Europe will be torn ashunder from within. And I would say the same is true for every other nation in the world. Uh it is much
more likely that the United States um suffers from a civil war than the United States uh losing a war against China.
Well, the political crisis now at least it can't be denied. I think the not just the United States but uh but Europe. So,
uh, well, let me thank you again for taking the time to come on. Uh, it's, uh, some, uh, yeah, disturbing development. So, uh, hope, uh, to see you again soon.
Okay. Thanks, CL.
￼
