Chapter 1: Introduction and background
Today's guest is a teacher, geopolitics expert, and YouTuber known for his popular channel Predictive History,
where he breaks down why global events happen, and what could come next. We covered a lot of ground here. Uh, war in
the Middle East, China verse America, secret societies.
Uh, I had a fascinating chat with today's guest, Professor Xang. Shine
on [music] me and I will find a song I've been singing.
Professor Jang. Hey Theo. Is that is that correct? That's correct. Yeah.
Professor Jang, thank you so much for coming by today.
Well, thank thanks so much for inviting me.
Yeah, I'm very happy to have you. Is this your first time in Los Angeles? It's my first time in Los Angeles. Yeah.
And how's how's the experience been so far?
It's been surreal. Um, so your producers have been wonderful. Uh, they put me in this fantastic hotel
and, uh, I went for a walk around the neighborhood, um, West Hollywood. Um, so I went down San Monica Boulevard.
Oh, yeah. It's just gorgeous. Yeah.
Just um, the streets are so illuminated and the build are so beautiful. But then, you know, as I'm walking, there's
in the middle of the of the sidewalk a pile of dog Yeah.
So, I walk past it and it takes me a couple minutes to realize that didn't come from a dog, actually. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, it's been surreal.
Yeah. We got a lot of tall dogs in this [laughter] area, you know. Yeah. Yeah.
That's just a little decoration, brother. That's how it goes here. And if you're lucky, it'll have a needle in it in the middle. It's freedom, man.
Yeah, it is freedom, man. Uh, Professor Jeang, thank you so much for just making the trip, uh, for coming and joining us.
I know you're from your channel, your YouTube channel, Predictive History. Um, can you tell us a little bit about your channel for people that don't know about it?
Chapter 2: Game theory and geopolitics
Yeah, so um, I'm a high school teacher and what I try to do is try to explain geopolitics in a way that students can
appreciate. And what I try to do is with my with my analysis, I try to make predictions and that's a really um good
way to engage students as well as to test my own worldview, my own hypothesis. And so two years ago while I
was teaching this class, I made three predictions. The first is that Trump would win in 2024 and uh that he would
launch this war against Iran and that he would lose this war. And uh I blew up on online because it turns out that all three predictions should not be accurate.
Well, I the first two for sure and that's how you came on my radar was with those two predictions. That's how I learned about you at first.
And um before we move on with it, do you teach at high school?
That's right. I I teach a high school level.
What's something that's kind of unique about a school in China maybe that we wouldn't know?
Well, there are no guns. Uh okay.
Yeah. [laughter] Good. You win. You win.
Sorry. I I'm sorry. I didn't. So, so I've been in China and we're just brainwashed all the time of American schools, American culture.
But at least you're brainwashed not to have guns in school. That's that's some of the positive brainwashing at least.
Um yeah, you came on my radar whenever uh I saw the videos about your um your predicting your Trump win and predicting
uh the war in Iran. Um I I noticed that you use something called game theory. Yes.
Um can you explain uh game theory just so people know?
Yeah. So the idea of game theory is that um if you want to analyze someone's behavior, you have to look at three
things. Um first of all, you have to look at the structure of the game. Uh how do you win the game? What are the rules? What are the incentives? Um and
once you figure that out, then uh you can figure out his or her optimal behavior in this game. So in terms in
terms of geopolitics just imagine the United States uh Iran, Israel, Saudi Arabia as distinct players in the game
where they're trying to maximize the outcome against each other and they will use their own unique strategies in order to achieve so and that's how I'm able to make some amazing predictions.
Yeah, I know. I know the game theory. I remember first hearing about it in that film Beautiful Mind. Oh, yes. Yes.
Who was the what was the guy's name, Nick? Uh John Nash.
John Nash. Yeah, he uses that like whenever the whenever he's examining things or trying to figure things out, he uses that in there um in there. And he went crazy, too.
Yeah. Yeah. And he went crazy. So, best of luck, right? Thank you.
Best of luck, professor. Um yeah, let's talk about the war in Iran. Let's start there because that's fresh. That's on everybody's mind right now. Do you think it could be our new Vietnam or what do
Chapter 3: The Middle East conflict
you what like h how are you viewing the war in Iran right now? Yeah. The best case scenario is that becomes um uh America's Vietnam. But I think the
problem is that that's best case scenario. That's best case scenario. Yeah. Yeah.
But I think the problem is that this war is expanding very rapidly. So before a few months ago, it was limited to uh a
war between Israel, United States and Iran. And now it's brought in Saudi Arabia against the Houthies uh which is
in Yemen. Um there's a credible uh threat that the war in Ukraine might merge with the war in Iran because Yes.
Because what's happened um a couple weeks ago is that a Iranian cargo ship that was transporting supplies from
Russia to Iran uh through the Caspian Sea. it was hit by a Ukrainian drone and um since then the Ukrainians have
apologized but um the according to game theory right now the Ukrainians aren't doing so well uh in Ukraine and uh right
now Russia is fighting a war of attrition and because Russia is such a much bigger power than Ukraine [snorts] in the long term Ukraine will ultimately
lose this war. So to change that dynamic, what Zilinsky wants to do is lure America into the war. And the best
way he can do that is to combine the two fronts. Um so um if Zilinski shows that
Russia can supply Iran through the Caspian Sea, then uh America needs to stop this trade and Ukraine can help
America by sending in drones to attack uh Iranian shipping. So there's a real threat that these two fronts merge in which case all bets are off in which
case it's World War II and you can also um see the possibility of systems collapse civilization collap as well
all of that from that from that and the reason why is that area Ukraine the Middle East it's really
the nexus or the heart of the global economy because that's where the world gets but Ukraine and the Middle East are pretty far from each other. Can you even show me on this globe actually how far away from each other are they?
Right. Right. So this is really interesting. Okay. So this is UK. This is Iran. And you can move that close.
Okay. Sure. Yeah. So what I want to show you is how far these fronts are. Okay.
So this war in Ukraine has been going on since 2022, right? It's been 4 years and most of the funding is going on in
eastern Ukraine right over here. Um and fortunately the war has been limited to
this front. Now, as of um late February, uh Iran, this war in Iran has broken out
and what's been happening is that at first the main conflict was over the street of Hamus, which is right here.
But the problem is the entire Middle East depends on the strip of Hamuz for trade. So Saudi Arabia, um, Bahan,
Qatar, UAE, Kuwait, what they do is they take their oil and then they transport
it all the way for the Malaka uh to East Asia
um and to India and Pakistan. So really the oil from the Middle East feeds the economies of Asia. Uh you look at a
place like Japan, it depends on 3/4 of its oil from over here. Wow.
Um in China depends on 40%, India it's like 50 to 60%. In return uh these
places will send food over back to the Middle East as well as water because this place is a desert. They don't have
their own uh food and water. But now what people don't appreciate is that there are lots of byproducts of oil
production. Um and one of these byproducts is fertilizer for food and this fertilizer also transits through
the sha moose to Africa and this fertilizer feeds their population. So imagine what happens if this entire air
shuts down, right? You can have famine in Africa and you can have a collapse in
East Asia which would then um cause a domino effect where uh Africa breaks
down. you have civil war, revolution, Africa. Then what happens? These migrants shift over to Europe. We've
already seen that uh last week when you have this 50,000 essentially invasion in Spain.
That's right. Uh a place called CO2 uh Spain. Yeah.
Right. And that's a small part of Spain that's actually connected to Morocco. Right.
That's right. That's right. Um we we we can see how volatile the situation is. Wow. So it's really a domino effect.
Right. Now, Ukraine um is very important because Ukraine and Russia together supplies the world with onethird of its
carbohydrates. So, Ukraine Ukraine say that again. Ukraine and Russia together supply the world with a third of their carbohydrates.
So, so yeah. So, so what I'm saying is um a third of the world's carbohydrates comes from Ukraine and Russia together.
Wow. Is that true?
Yeah. So, um Ukraine is cons basket of Europe.
Wow. The claim is not accurate, but it means that one-third of all carbohydrate carbohydrates eaten or produced globally come from Russia and Ukraine. A more
accurate version is Russia and Ukraine have supplied roughly 12% of internationally traded food calories in a very large share of specific grain
export markets, about 28 to 30% of globally traded wheat. So there's a
there is a huge amount of um of food calories that comes out of there. That's right. That's right. So that is true.
That's right. Yeah. Okay.
So, thanks so much for facteing me. Um, but but yeah, but you can you can appreciate how the world depends on
food, fertilizer, and energy from this area. And so, um, the great threat is
that because, uh, Russia can supply Iran through the Caspian Sea, the war extends
Chapter 4: Proxies and sectarian politics
to the northern caucuses, which brings in Armenia, Georgia, and Arjan.
And then if that would happen, you can see this entire area is now engulfed in war. Another really critical uh thing
that's been happening these past few weeks is that more and more nations are being brought into this war. So into which war into the one in the
Middle East in in the Middle East. And the reason why is that for Iran to pressure the United States, what Iran can do is
threaten the energy infrastructure of American allies in the Middle East, including Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE, uh,
Bahan. What Iran can do is hold the energy infrastructure of the Middle East hostage. Imagine Saudi Arabia as just this huge oil field.
Okay?
Right? And it's great in a time of peace because you can take this huge oil field and sell it to Japan, China, uh, South
Korea, India. But the problem is that a huge oil field means it's a lake of gasoline. So all I have to do is take a
match, light it on fire, and then everything blows up. And Iran can do that with its drone and ballistic missile uh capabilities.
And so um um Iran is always threat threatening this. The other issue is that Iran has proxies meaning allies in
uh the Middle East and there are three major allies. The first are a people called the Houthies um uh who are these religious fanatic people who live in
mountains and they occupy a very strategic area called the Bal Landab Strait.
B El Mandab Straight. Yes. So, so here is a Hummus. Yes. Yes.
This is the Bal Land Straight. And as you can see, these are the two most critical maritime choke points in the Middle East.
Wow.
And the problem is that the Houthis are live in mountains. So it's almost impossible to dislodge them. And because
so much of maritime um shipping requires insurance, any threat of destruction means that the
insurance companies don't want um to insure these ships. And that puts a hold on global trade. So the real fear is
that Saudi Arabia will launch a ground invasion to dislodge the Houthis and control this wow
choke point. Okay. So you can imagine a massive alliance being um um formed to go against the Houthis. Another major
proxy is called Hespala which is in Lebanon. And uh these past few few weeks, Israel has been trying to to uh
attack Hezbollah. And there's a real threat that this era, Lebanon, breaks out into total war. And right now, what
Israel is trying to do is assemble an alliance to destroy Hezbollah. And this alliance includes Israel, but it also includes Syria and also includes the uh Lebanese army.
And uh Hezbollah is a proxy of Iran. So Iran if it sees Hezbollah under threat
then Iran would extend the war in order to uh help out uh uh Hezbollah.
But why would the Lebanese army support Israel if hasn't there been issues between Israel and Lebanon recently?
Right. So um like hasn't there been attacks in Lebanon from Israel?
Right. So, Israel is attacking Lebanon because it sees Hesbah as a threat because Hesblah can launch rocket
attacks against uh Israel and Lebanon can threaten uh sorry, Hesbah can threaten the Suez Canal cuz wait, Israel has been attacking Lebanon, right?
That's right. Okay, great.
That's right. So, um Lebanon uh Hezbollah is not part of the Lebanese government. Got it. And so imagine there
are different sectarian groups in Leb in Lebanon and they share power together.
And one of these groups is Hezbollah and Hezbollah is aligned with Iran and they are committed to uh protecting
themselves from from Israel and Israel sees them as a bunch of terrorists that need to be removed. And um so um Hespa
the problem with Hespa is that it's extremely popular in Lebanon among the Lebanese people because unlike the Lebanese government, they're not corrupt
and they provide good services to the people. Understood. So yes, sometimes we hear about these groups. You hear about Hamas, you hear about Hezbollah, but the
people there in some of these countries actually prefer some of these groups or actually do support some of these groups because they're kind of an outlier
government that's more supportive to the people than the actual government.
That's right. So they're popular because they are able to provide basic community services to the local population. And
unfortunately um these governments in the Middle East a lot of them have proved to be very corrupt and um a lot of their leaders
seem to be um sympathetic towards Israeli interest and people suspect that they've been blackmailed by Mossad because Mossad's very good at that.
Yeah.
What kind of blackmail could MSAD be doing do you feel like in these spaces?
Like you talk about blackmail and you hear about blackmail a lot. you hear about massage, you hear about blackmail in America a lot like um with the Epstein files and different
places holding things potentially over like American politicians heads.
So I think that rather than use the word blackmail, I think we we can use the word influence.
How how are they have able to have so much influence in the area?
Well, I mean the um easiest way is become friends with these people, right?
So uh let's just say you're leader of Lebanon. Well, you have children. Don't you want your children to go to the best schools? Mhm.
Don't you want your children to get good jobs? Maybe working for like Goldman Sachs, maybe working for um a university
as a professor. Well, we can help you because we have all these friends in the United States and we can arrange visas for your kids to go study at elite
universities. We can ensure that they get good jobs. Right. Right.
I mean, it's that simple. Right. It's that simple. Let's just be friends. Right.
Right. And so if you're a leader of a place like Lebanon and the entire place is rife with sectarian violence, there's
not much you can do. Entire place is rife with what? Um, sectarian violence. Sectarian violence. Sectarian violence.
Social sectarian.
Okay. Sectarian violence.
S e c a r i a n. And sectarian violence is physical conflict and harm between different religious or political groups
Chapter 5: Managing global choke points
within a community or nation. That's there's a lot of that in Lebanon.
Yeah. Because you have a lot of different religious groups in Lebanon.
You have the Christians, you have the Muslims, and then they're also broken up in like different groups, and they're also like these tribal loyalties
throughout the Middle East. So, if you're a leader um of Lebanon or Iraq um
or um any place in the Middle East, uh you're dealing with a very volatile political situation. And do you really
want to deal with these people or would you rather use your position to ensure that your children have a better future?
Right. To help out your relatives, help out your friends and and that's why they go into this these political uh positions. So, and that's the and that's
the main way that the Mossad is able to exert influence over the um Middle East because they can help these leaders send
their money and their children to a safe place in Europe or the United States.
And if and and that is just um being being friendly.
Yeah. That's human survival, too. It's like where you want to survive. You want to be well enough to take care of yourselves. That's right.
So, it's not always like a level of blackmail that's violence. It's sometimes it's a level of uh it's a level of assistance.
That's right. I'm just helping you out. We're helping each other out. Right. Right.
I help out your children and you help me kill people who are doing nasty things like Hzbollah. Right. We both hate Hzbollah because they're terrorists. So
we're we're and we're just like rubbing each other's back.
Yeah. You mentioned the uh the straight of hormuz a few minutes ago. Yes. Um why is that place so important?
Yeah. So that place cuz you you hear it all the time. Can you explain it kind of in basic terms and why it's so important?
Right. Okay. The ship who moves is the lynch pin of the Middle East economy because like um if you just look at this
globe, okay, there are certain countries that are within the Persian Gulf, right?
Kuwait, Qatar, uh the United Arab Emirates, basically Dubai. Now, it's important because there's only one way
for the for them to transport uh their oil. Okay, got it.
Right. Okay. Do do you see how um there's only one passageway? It's like a one-way street. Got it.
Right. So, they're going to take their oil and then transport it to East Asia. Mhm.
And then um they're and then what they get in return is water and food because it's a desert. They can't grow their own food. Got it.
They don't have their own water. Okay.
Okay. So, that is crucial to their survival. If that were to be eliminated, like suddenly closed off, then UAE,
Qatar, Kuwait, Ban, all these places would be dead in the water. Recently, Trump had spoken up. I think it was even just the other day where he said, uh, he
said, um, that Iran will be hit very hard. You know, he's always like, we're going to hit, you know, we're going to hit them in the you know, in the
 head nuts or whatever. We're going to hit them in the, you know, the mittens they wear around their head. He's always doing so but it's like he said they're going to be hit very
hard if the straight of Hormuz doesn't open very soon. Yes.
How is I how is Iran like controlling that effectively right now for themselves right? Yes. Um and how successful are they being with their
management of the straight of Hormuz right now?
Yes. Okay. So to answer this question I have to explain a concept to you called the escalation ladder. Okay. Okay. So what is the escalation ladder?
It's a very simple idea which is in a fight um emotions create momentum.
Okay.
Okay. So for example, let's just say you and I uh we have a fight. Um I tell a joke. You you think it sucks. I get
pissed off you so I punch you. Right. So So what? Then you punch me back. Then I I'm like, "Okay." Then I take out a knife and I stab you. Then you get a
knife and then you stab me. Then I take out a gun. I shoot you. Take out a gun.
Then you shoot me. then I take out that bazooka and I hit you. Okay. Okay. So, so but you can see how it's a ladder and and how um emotions create momentum but there's a logic to the escalation. Okay.
So, understand the escalation ladder.
Now, I'll explain to you how the war in Iran has been escalating. Okay.
And how it should continue to escalate if the war continues. So, so this is so this is an escalation ladder you're showing involving
Chapter 6: The escalation ladder
involving Iran in the straight of Hormuz.
Yes. So, this is United States and this is Iran. Okay. Okay.
So, um we start the war with United States using something called a decapitation strategy meaning that um if
the what the United States believes that if I take out your leader now you're leaderless and therefore you must surrender to me. So in the first day uh
February 28th they killed the alatollah uh kame the supreme leader of Iran the Ayatollah committee. Yeah
that's right. And they killed also a lot of the senior leadership. And this this what we call a decapitation strike. And the assumption is that if you kill the
leader then Iran would break out into civil war and they surrendered to you.
And this exactly what happened in Venezuela uh a few months back. Right.
So this what call decapitation strike when they got Maduro. That's right.
Yeah. And he was in jail with 69 which is crazy. Um Okay. Yes. So but but it didn't happen here.
But it didn't happen here. Okay. So that that's a first strike. Okay. So they tried it in Iran. They tried to the decapitation strategy. Yes. But it didn't break out in civil war.
That's right. That's right. So now what the UN does is it strikes back by closing off the shumoose. Right.
And but that's because they made a new Ayatollah who took over. Who was that? The son.
The son, right? So they so many son.
That's right. They replaced the kame with the kam. Okay.
Yeah. And then what Iran did um close up the first thing they did was close up sort of moves. and they start to attack
America's allies in the Middle East, including Qatar, uh, Dubai, Bahan, Kuwait.
America did. No, Iran did. Okay. So, take me back a step.
Okay. All right. So, the United States does a decapitation strike. Got it.
And then Iran punches back. How? By putting pressure on America's allies.
Right. They attacked Israel. They attacked Dubai. They attack Qatar. The reason why they did that was the theory
that um these places give a lot of money to the United States. They invest a lot in the US economy. So therefore, they
have a lot of leverage over the United States. If they're being attacked, they would pressure Trump to end the war.
Okay? And so once Iran did that, then that forces the United States to basically
have a ceasefire because if the war continues, then what would happen is the
entire world would lose at least 20% of the global oil supply and this could possibly create economic collapse.
So So you're saying America had to take a break then and rethink about what's going on.
Yeah. because the first strategy didn't work. Got it. And the United States didn't have a second strategy and the straight of horm is closed at this point. They closed it.
The straight of whom moves is I know at this point in the in the latter.
Okay. So throughout this entire process uh there's been a lot on on on and off.
So sometimes it's open, sometimes it's closed.
Okay. So now what what the American response is now to put more pressure on Iran by trying to strangle the economy.
Okay. So how the United States does that is Iran ships 90% of its oil to China.
Right? So what America did was impose a naval blockade um in the Arabian Sea to prevent Chinese
tankers from reaching Iran and prevent Iranian tankers from uh reaching China.
So they wanted to stop the flow of oil from Iran to China. That's right. And that's how China gets most of its oil.
Uh well well no that's China gets uh its oil from a diverse um from many different countries but Iran will export
90% of its oil to China. And the theory is that if you stop that trade, then Iran cannot pay its soldiers. Then the soldiers would rebel. The government
would collapse. Okay. So that's the second step. Okay. I I tried the capation strike. Didn't work. So now I'll try to strangle your economy. Got it.
And that doesn't work either.
Right. And so what happens now is that why didn't that work?
Because um the Iranians have been under sections for the past uh 30 years. So they are
used to being poor. Ah, right.
Right. So, in Los Angeles, if um you know, we made gas $10 a day, well,
there'll be riots. But in Iran, you know, if you take take away half their calories, well, they're used to being poor. So,
they're used to the sanctions. They're used to living with a with a government that's like manipulating them and taking advantage of them.
That's right. That's right. So therefore, the Iranians are much more able to bear pain than the American,
right? And and so the American American government now under Trump is under a lot more pressure to end this war than the Iranians. Understood?
Okay. So that's a second step and that doesn't work either.
So now you move to a third step which is you destroy the state's capacity to deliver basic services which means
water, food and electricity. So when Trump says I will destroy their civilization, what he's really saying is I will destroy their power plants.
Right? Because energy is a source of civilization. Right? So the next step that we can expect, which has not happened yet, uh but there are signs
that it will happen is the United States will target its missiles at Iranian power plants and deny electricity to the
local population. And the theory is that if you do that, then people will not be able to bear the pain and they will revolt. revolt. Exactly.
Wow. Yes. So that's man that's a lot going on and you believe that that's where we could be headed there.
We are very much heading in that direction. Okay. So now what the Iranians do in response is they activate their proxies. Okay. Why? Because the
proxies are now able to exert a lot more pain on the global economy. Right? So the arenas are able to close out the moves. And their proxies who are they
say who their proxies are in Lebanon, the Houthis in Yemen, and then you have the militias, the Shia militias in Iraq.
Okay.
Right. So the the the logic of this is by closing off um the Hummus, Iran is
denying the world the world 20% of the global supply of oil. But now if the Hooies are able to close off the uh back
El Manat straight, then that's another 7%. So that's putting more pressure on um the global economy. And now if
Lebanon is able to close off the uh Suez Canal or put pressure on the on trade over here, that's even more pressure.
Right. That's a lot.
Yeah. But but but as we can see this escalation ladder, it's coming up really fast. Right.
Right. And the real fear is that um the Americans will be under so much pressure
that they use tact tactical nuclear weapons against Iran. And then we could be looking at nuclear war and civilizational collapse.
And that's World War II for sure.
Uh no, it's end of civilization for sure.
Oh yeah.
Professor Jeang, what are we going to do? Um do you believe in God?
Yeah, we're good then. [laughter] That's a good point. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Yeah.
All right. I'll see you on the other side. See you in the big H. That's right.
Dude, I heard that if you go to heaven, this is something I heard that's kind of cool. Just to take a break from the war stuff for a second. If you go to heaven, and thank you for explaining this and
thank you for discussing the escalation ladder with us. Um, if you go to heaven that when you get there, your friends are there. Yeah. Right. All your friends
that you knew from here and your family, but they all like work in different places. So, you might go to like a Jersey Mike's in heaven and your brother
or your ex-girlfriend could be working there and once you lock eyes with each other, you have memories of like things that you knew from this period here. Yeah.
But but it's brand new there. So, it's like you get to go everywhere and find your old friends and stuff. So, it' be pretty cool. Like you could be somewhere
and like Frederick Douglas or whatever could be a park ranger or Xihinping or something could be he could be working at an ice cream stand, you know? Yeah.
So, it could be kind of cool. Anyway, it sounds pretty cool.
Yeah. So, just letting you in on a little bit of uh BTS heaven lore. Great.
Um it it would be impractical for America to end up in a nuclear war though. Yeah. I don't think it will happen. Okay. Yeah.
So, you don't think that will happen? I don't think it will happen. No.
What stops that escalation ladder from going uh forward?
Chapter 7: The Clean Break memo
Yeah. Okay. So, again, we want to use game theory and step back and ask ourselves why this war is happening. Okay.
Okay. Because once you figure out what the motivations of the players are, then you can figure out how far this goes, right? Because the players are trying to
win and they're they're going to try to win in a way that um is at least harmful
or the easiest way to win, if that makes sense.
Yeah, it does. Cuz it's kind of like poker. So, say if I got an okay hand, I might bluff a little in the beginning or go in on a few blinds or something, but
I'm not going to probably raise it to the end of the line because I know what I have, right? Right? I'm going to wait for another hand.
Right? So, so let's look at game theory and ask ourselves who are the major players in this game and what do they want?
Okay. So, you have the United States, of course, you have Iran, you have Israel, and I would say the fourth major country is Saudi Arabia.
Okay. And why are we even in this conflict?
That's right. And so, so we're trying to figure this out because that's been a big question in America, especially amongst a lot of my peers. Um, why are we there? Why are we
putting our troops there? doesn't seem like we have a real interest. I know there's the rumors of weapons of mass destruction again. There's rumors of
nuclear weapons held by by Iran. But uh but I think people a lot of people um
feel like we've fallen for that trap before. Yes. Uh in Iraq. Yes. Um and in Kuwait. Yes.
And that that it could just be the same sort of uh fool's errand again.
Yeah. Exactly. So, it's a great question like why did America um attack Iran
after the failures of Afghanistan and Iraq?
Well, and also Trump, our president, said that we would not go to war with Iran.
That's right. That's right. So, yeah. What do you think's happening?
Yeah. So, I want to refer you to you to something called a clean break memo. Okay. Clean break memo.
Yes. It's really important we understand this if we understand what's going on.
The clean break memo. Uh maybe your producer can bring it up. The clean break memo. uh written in 1996. Okay. Okay.
And what and so let me give you some background. So um Bill Clinton is on in office and Bill Clinton is obsessed with
peace in the Middle East and because it rhymes probably.
Probably. Yeah. Yeah. And the Israelis have decided that now is a good time for a two-state solution. And the reason why
is that throughout its history, um, Israel was always in conflict with the other Arab nations around it because of
the Palestinian issue, right?
And the idea is that if Israel is to have security, it needs to resolve the Palestinian issue, it needs to give the
Palestinians its own state. And then and then once that happens, then uh the Arab nations can uh uh resume diplomatic
relations with Israel. they can trade peacefully and the Middle East will be prosperous and peaceful. Right. But you first have to resolve the Palestinian issue
because a lot of the Palestinians were Muslim, right? That's right.
And a lot of the surrounding areas are also Muslim around Israel are also Muslim.
That's right. So they're sympathetic towards the uh they're kind Muslims. Right. So for example, Saudi Arabia uh the royal
family said that as long as the Palestinian issue is not resolved, we will never ever have peace with Israel.
Okay. So this what we call the Oslo peace process. Yeah. Yeah, the Oslo Accords, right?
That's right. That's right. And um and the majority of the Israeli population was in favor of this. And the major
leader uh who are spearheading this movement in Israel is uh Exac. What's the name? Uh Isak Ribbin. I'll spell it for you.
Okay. Isac Isaac. Isak Rebin. Rabbine. Isak Rabin. Yezak Rabbine.
Yes. Okay. Rabbine. and he was determined to um have eternal peace with the
Palestinians. So he resolved this issue once and for all by giving them a state. Okay.
So he and Clinton were aligned with figuring this out.
That's right. That's right. And they also had Arafat to help them out as well. And the and the Arab nations, especially Saudi Arabia, were very supportive of this process.
But there was one person who was opposed to the peace process. His name is Benjamin Netanyahu
and he assembled a team of people mainly Americans um who developed a new policy for him called the clean break memo.
Okay.
And what the clean break memo says it's a very short document only about one page. What it says is screw peace
because our neighbors are Arabs and they only understand
power. So you want peace. You don't negotiate. You don't compromise. You hit
them hard. You keep on hitting them hard until they respect you. Okay. So there are three major pillars to the strategy
called the clean break. The first is go after pass.
Don't give them land. Don't compromise them. Teach them to respect you. Okay? Show power.
Make them afraid of you. Okay? That's number one. Number two is you have to rejuvenate the Israeli economy by adopting neoliberalism.
Forget socialism, let's go with capitalism because at this time socialism was very popular in Israel.
And um the third thing is to establish balance of power in the Middle East.
Balance of power in the Middle East. And the way you do that is you destroy regimes that could pos potentially
threaten you. This includes Syria and this includes Iraq. And so the strategy calls for working with Turkey and Jordan
to destabilize Syria and it calls for for regime change in Iraq. Okay. Okay. It's called a clean break memo.
Okay. A clean break, a new strategy for securing the realm, commonly common commonly known as a clean break report, is a policy document that was prepared in 1996 by a study group led by Richard
Chapter 8: Architects of the Iraq War
Pearl for Benjamin Netanyahu, then prime minister of Israel. The report explained a new approach to solving Israel's security problems in the Middle East
with an emphasis on Western values, which that means I guess more of like a capitalistic. That's right. That's right.
It has since been criticized for advocating a policy of removing Saddam Hussein from power in Iraq. That's right. and the containment of Syria by engaging in proxy warfare and
highlighting its possession of weapons of mass destruction. Certain parts of the policies set forth in the paper were rejected by Netanyahu. However, the
report was ultimately adopted and serves as a foundation for modern-day Israeli global affairs. Is that true?
Well, well, well, yeah. The the so so something really important for us to appreciate is the study group. There were two major uh
participants in the study group. Richard Pearl and al also Douglas Faith. Okay. Okay. Got it.
Right. [clears throat] And this is important because these two are Americans. Mhm.
And a few years later they will work for the Pentagon. And uh Douglas uh Thief and Richard Pearl work with Paul
Wolfitz. And these three become the architects of the Iraq war. Paul Wolfitz. Yes.
Okay. So you're saying two of the people that came up with the clean break memo.
Yes. then went on to work for the Pentagon.
Yes. And they're the architects of the Iraq War.
Okay. So, they were architects of the Iraq war. Here we go. Douglas J. Faith, an American lawyer who served as Secretary of Defense for policy. Faith has been described as an architect of
the Iraq war. In the leadup to the war, he played a key role in promoting the false claim that the Saddam Hussein regime had an operational relationship
with al-Qaeda. um a Pentagon and inspector general report found that faith office had developed, produced and then disseminated alternative
intelligent assessments on the Iraq and al-Qaeda relationship um which included some conclusions that were inconsistent
with the consensus of the intelligence community uh to senior decision makers.
Huh. The other thing about Douglas uh uh five is um he has been sus suspected for a long time of being an Israeli asset.
Okay.
Uh but despite that, he was still able to climb the hierarchy, which is very weird because the FBI and the CIA uh determined 1970s that he could possibly be an Israeli asset.
Wow. So that's interesting that he would be that they thought that and then he was still able to climb the ranks. Very interesting. Yeah. Yeah.
H Yeah. But not not only him, but Richard Pearl was also suspected of being an Israeli asset.
Richard Norman Pearl is an American political adviser who served as the assistant secretary of defense for global strategic affairs under Ronald Reagan. Pearl was an architect of the Iraq war.
Yeah.
Um he claimed that Saddam Hussein regime possessed weapons of mass destruction. Okay.
So, so we need to understand what the clean break memo really is. Okay. And what it really is is a blueprint for the Greater Israel Project.
And the Greater Israel Project is a belief among um certain Zionists
that the entire Middle East belongs to Israel.
And just to be clear, this isn't Jewish people. This is we're talking about um the Israeli government and extremist views, right?
That's right. It's not it's not necessarily a Jew Jewish person. A Zionist is someone who believes in supremacy of Israel.
Okay. So, a Zionist is someone who believes in supremacy of Israel. Look it up, Nick, because I hear the term. We might have talked about it before. I We've probably talked about it before
some, but I don't know if you've ever looked it up. Zionism is an ethnocultural nationalist movement that emerged in late 19th century Europe to establish and support a Jewish homeland.
What does ethnocultural nationalist mean, Nick? Can you click on that?
Um, it it it Ethnocultural na ethnic nationalism is a form of nationalism in which the nation and nationality are defined in terms of
ethnicity. Uh yeah what what does that mean? ethnic cultural nationalism.
What what it really means is um there are certain people Zionists who believe that God promised this land to the Jews
and only the Jews and therefore only the Jews should be in this land and therefore the Palestinians have no right to be there. Therefore, two-state solution goes against the will of God.
Got it. That's what it really means.
Okay. Wow. But what about people who just believe that Jew that that Jewish people deserve to have their own place as well? Is that Zionism?
So there are different forms of Zionism. Okay?
And what I'm referring to an extreme form of Zionism that has taken hold over Israel. Okay? Because remember in the
1990s everyone, the majority of people were supportive of a two-state solution.
They wanted peace with the Arabs in 1990s. Is that true? Let's bring that up.
Let me see. In the 1990s, the Israeli public was deeply divided rather than in full agreement regarding a two-state solution. While the signing of the Oslo
Accords in 93 generated strong initial hope and fluctuating majority support for the peace process at various points, substantial portions of the population,
including right-wing political factions, and the settler movement uh opposed partitioning the land. Um so there was
some support for it. Um okay. Okay. So you have this extreme so you have an extreme group. Yeah. The the settlers basically.
Okay. So So the group you're talking about is an extreme group that wanted that want that that's supporting this clean break. That's right.
Right. That was that wanted a greater Israel. That's right. That's an extreme group.
That's right. And they were led by Netanyahu. Okay.
Who became prime minister in 96 to implement the Greater Israel project.
He's been in power for the past 20 years. And if you look at what's been happening in the Middle East, right? um the Iraq war and then after
that the invasion uh and regime change in Libya in Syria and now this attack
against Iran. It is consistent with the clean break memo. Got it.
And what is amazing is that this transcends politics. Both the Democrats and Republicans are participating in the implementation of the clean brick memo.
You mean American Democrats and American Republicans are right. That's right. So um it was George W. Bush which launched the war against
Iraq, but it was Obama Obama who uh supported regime change in Syria and in Libya which is also part of the clean
clean memo. What what I want to do now is show you a video. This this important we watch this video together. Okay. And
so um um the the the video is General Wesley Clark and he's talking to Amy Goodman. This is after 911. And so 9/11
was a traumatic event for Americans and the assumption was that uh the US military would seek vengeance
against the Taliban and al-Qaeda by attacking um Afghanistan. But what Wesley Clark says is no no
we're not only going we're not just going after Afghanistan, we're going after seven countries and let's listen to what he says. So,
and so this is a but this how do we know this isn't a consu is this a theory or is this facts? That's what I'm wondering.
Chapter 9: General Wesley Clark's testimony
Oh, it's all facts. The clean memo is is a fact. Um and Wesley Clark saying this to Emmy Goodman. I mean, it it's on YouTube.
Okay. And this is US Army General uh Wesley Clark, right?
That's right. He's retired now. He's talking to Emmy Goodman about what happens after 911.
Okay. About 10 days after 911, I went through the Pentagon and I saw Secretary Rumsfeld and and Deputy Secretary
Wolawitz. I went downstairs just to say hello to some of the people on the joint staff who had used used to work for me.
And one of the generals called me in. He said, "Sir, you got to come in. You got to come in and talk to me a second." I said, "Well, you're too busy." He said, "No, no." He says, "You've made the
decision. We're going to war with Iraq." This was on or about the 20th of September. I said, "We're going to war with Iraq? Why?
He said, "I don't know." [laughter] He said, "I guess they don't know what else to do." So, uh, I said, "Well, did they find
some information collect connecting Saddam to Al Qaeda?" He said, "No, no." He says, "There's nothing new that way.
They've just made the decision to go to war with Iraq." He said, "I guess it's like we don't know what to do about terrorists, but we've got a good
military and we can take down governments." And um he said, "I guess if if the only tool you have is a hammer, every problem has to look like a nail."
So I came back to see him a few weeks later and by that time we were bombing in Afghanistan. I said, "Are we still going to war with Iraq?" And he said,
"Oh, it's worse than that." He said, he reached over on his desk, he picked up a piece of paper. He said, "I just" He said, "I just got this down from upstairs," meaning the Secretary of
Defense's office today. and he said, "This is a memo that describes how we're going to take out seven countries in 5 years, starting with Iraq and then
Syria, Lebanon, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, and finishing off Iran." I said, "Is it classified?" He said,
"Yes, sir." I said, I said, "Well, don't show it to me." So, you're saying that this is part of the clean break memo?
That's right. That's right. Because how else can you explain what's going on?
And again, this is um General Wesley Clark has access to confidential Pentagon information and he's saying that right after 911, they've already
decided to go to war against the entire Middle East, finishing with Iran.
And did we end up doing those things right there? Yes, we did. Well, not not me. Not us. Yeah. No, not us. Yeah. Yeah. I wasn't involved, right?
I'm chill. Yeah.
I definitely Yeah. I mean, I have issues with my neighbors sometimes because of their dog or whatever, but Yeah. Wasn't me, man.
Yeah. Um, so but we've gone but but have we done those things that they said in that video and that that have we attacked? Have we gone to war with those places?
Yeah. What was the places he listed?
So um Syria, right? That's done. Um Libya,
um Iraq, um was Somalia one of them?
Yeah. Iraq, Syria, Libya, Lebanon, Somalia, Sudan, and Iran. So, Iran's the last on the list.
It's his final boss. Final boss. That's right. Wow. Yeah. A final boss. Oh, that's the Mike Tyson right there.
Yeah.
Um, so and but why why do you feel like so you you feel like America's working at the behest of the Israeli government
of Netanyahu's choices? Well, like what do you think that relationship is there?
Well, it seems Yeah, because because if this is true, then it would then it would say that that that America's working at the behest of of Netanyahu and some of these
other people who this is the what they want, right? Or is this what we want?
Yeah. So, again, there's a pattern here, right? So, I I I'm not trying to make a judgment. All I'm trying to do is point out a pattern that's emerging where in
96 um they they write the clean break memo encouraging Netanyahu to choose a path
of war and dominance in the Middle East and to clean break away from the Oslo peace process and that's exactly what he's been doing for the past 20 years.
Okay. Um then these people spec specifically Richard Pearl and Douglas F they go work for the Pentagon and they
help implement a lot of the clean memo policies by starting a war against Iraq for no particular reason and then for no
particular reason what happens Americans attack Libya Sarah destabilize the regime cost millions of refugees to flow into Europe
and now we have this war in Iran and we don't even know why Trump attacked Iran even and you point this out like he never he's been saying for a long time that he would not do so.
Yeah.
So what's going on here? Right. Like if the United States was not doing this at the behest of Israel, then how how can we explain what's going on?
Right.
Right. Now what what I'll do now is use game theory to explain why Israel would want this. Okay.
Right. Because so this is this this this will be hard uh for Americans to understand. All right. right for Americans to understand.
But like Wesley Clark says we need to remove seven nations uh in 5 years and they're doing that, right? Iran is the
final boss and um the idea is there are Zionists who want to achieve the greater Israel project and the idea of the general
project is that Israel will dominate the Middle East and only if Israel does that
will Jews um have security in the Middle East. Okay.
Okay. But weren't they weren't they secure before? Like I don't understand why they weren't secure, right? So they weren't secure because
the Palestinians were in revolt against them. The Palestinians felt that they were being oppressed, that their land was stolen from them. And so they were
engaging in terrorist activities against the Israelis, including bus bombings, including airplane hijackings.
But why wouldn't Israel just figure that out instead of go this other big route? It seems like, you know what I'm saying?
It seems like if it's me figuring out something with a neighbor as opposed to battling the whole town, it would seem like more at my behest, like a wiser
choice to just figure out something with my neighbor.
Right. Because you have a brother who's kind of crazy and your brother believes that this house is not their house, it's our house, okay?
Uh which was stolen by by this other family and so we have a right to go take it back from them.
Okay? And there's nothing you can do about your brother. Netanyahu is the crazy brother basically. Yes. Okay. Got it.
Right. And and and these are people what we call the settlers, right? Okay.
These are people who um go against Israeli national law and go and forcefully evict Palestinians from their
homes. Even though this is against Israeli national law.
Yeah, there was I know there's a lot of cases of that. You can see them on YouTube too of people getting evicted from their homes for no reason. People taking people's land. Um, a lot of heartbreaking stuff out there. Um, okay.
So, now you're showing me what is this you're looking at here.
So, so let's just take what we know and draw things to the logical conclusion. So, this is game theory.
This is game theory. Okay. If you believe that this land was given to you by God and says says so, it says so in
the Bible. Okay? And you believe that it is Israel's destiny to dominate the Middle East. Your real enemy is not Iran, right? Who's your real enemy?
The United States of America. Oh, the United States.
Right. Because United States provides security guarantees to many Arab nations. Saudi Arabia is protected by
the United States. Um, and Saudi Arabia is part of the Greater Israel Project. Egypt is protected by the United States.
Israel, Egypt is also part of the Greater Israel Project. Right? So, what you need to do is remove both Iran and
the United States from the equation. And the best way to do that is to have them go to war against each other, right? And then Israel is the last
nation standing. And then and then they they achieved the greater Israel project. But that's this is game theory, by the way. This is game theory.
Yeah. But how would you h like how would America I mean our country is way over here and I know that's like I know that
Chapter 10: Esoteric goals and secret societies
doesn't mean everything that we have this geographical space but how would we like how would we be defeated in it?
Well, we would be like the United States would be defeated if this war becomes so unpopular at home that the people revolt
and that's forces the American military to retreat back to American uh borders.
Okay. So then we would lose that war but we wouldn't lose our country though.
Uh no wait. Yeah. I mean the United States would wouldn't lose their country but they would lose the empire. Yeah.
Oh so we would we would completely remove oursel from the Middle East.
You're saying remove ourselves from all of our allies and then Israel would have the ability to control them. That's right.
But why doesn't Israel just go control them and not even involve us?
Because um Saudi Arabia um and the other nations of the Middle East, they have a lot of money and they
invest trillions of dollars in the US economy in exchange for US protection. Got it. Yeah. Wow.
H you know one thing that has scared me and I've heard people a lot of people talk about it was is like a lot of like the technology and stuff that they that
that that was used in Palestine like during a lot of the genocide over there.
It's like drones being used to kill people being used to kill children. We had a doctor on who who was talking about children getting shot just right
down through their bodies you know like in a way that was like it it seemed very logical that drones were the ones that were doing it. all
the reporters being killed there so that nobody could transfer any real information out of the out of the uh world over there. Um one of those things
especially with the technology and then you start to see the surveillance stuff happening in America, it starts to make you think well why wouldn't that why
wouldn't it come here? like if you know like that's certainly a fear that I hear a lot is that um that we're going to become in this surveillance state and
then the same thing could happen to us over here if we're out of line with who with um if Israel were to gain control
of America and then we're out of line with something that they see or some behavior or something um or they want to move people here off of their land, you
know, it's it's that that's something that's very scary.
Yeah. As we look at Gaza, I I think Gaza um is the uh pilot for a civilian state. You you think it's a pilot for what?
For a surveillance state. Yeah. As a testing ground.
That's a testing ground for for southern state because like the theory is that once Israel achieves the greater Israel project, it now needs to um control this
entire area and there aren't that many Jews. Uh so it needs certain technology in order to control the local population. What what I think will
happen and this is going to shock a lot of people is right now Israel is very close with India and India the
population is booming and there's a lot of young people and if you let if you just let them stay in India they're going to revolt against you because the
economy is not doing so well but so what if Israel and India were to get together and says hey let's bring in millions of Indians to work now in the Middle East
because war has destroyed the population of the Middle East And now you can use surv technology to control these Indians and these the Indian people are used to
a cast system anyway. So the idea that the Jews at the very top right and the Indians are a working class like the
like um doing the labor and it's all being controlled by technology. Well, you would achieve the greater project.
Wow. And do you think that's what's going on?
I think that's the direction we're moving towards. Whether or not they will succeed, I can't really say, but I think that's the plan.
But the people certainly the people of of Israel don't want to see all that like like they don't want to see so many people get killed and that sort of stuff happen. You think they want to?
I think Israel may be heading towards a civil war between two places. You have Tel Aviv, which is the gayest city in the world. Very liberal, uh, very cosmopolitan.
You mean gays like people being gay?
Like I mean like real gays, like men that hug each other like Yeah. And and women can hug each other, too.
Oh, yeah. Okay. I don't know what you're talking I if you using it like hypothetical homosexuals. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Gays. Yeah. Sorry. Yeah. Just regular gays. Yeah.
I didn't know if we were talking about different, you know, a different branch of gays or I didn't know what was going on. Yeah. Like Yeah. Like just gays. Yeah. Yeah. And then you have Jerusalem.
Yeah.
Which is very conservative, very religious. So these are two competing visions of um Israel. And unfortunately
the people in Jerusalem are the ones with the power and they are extreme in their religious vision. Okay.
Yeah. I just Well, I know they have an election coming up over there.
That's right. They And so that's I I I just feel like is that going to determine a lot cuz like I mean I feel bad for a lot of my
Jewish friends here who do not want to be associated like you know it's heartbreaking to them. You know my friend Michael's always talking to me.
It's like, you know, to make sure like to let like just because Israel doesn't mean Jewish people. It doesn't mean like it's the it's the government.
That's right.
It's so I want to use religion to show you how extreme these people are. Okay.
Right. So, um the Holocaust was a traumatic event and 6 million Jews died.
Let me ask you this question. Okay. Um why did the Holocaust happen?
Chapter 11: Ideology and geopolitics
The Holocaust happened I guess because of an ideology that was created by Hitler and his regime. Yeah, it was Hitler's fault, right?
Okay. So, the extremist Jews uh are called capitalists. Okay. The Cabala. And um
they have an extreme vision of how the universe works. And the deep dark secret
um that they have about the Holocaust is the Jews deserved it. Okay, so let me explain why. If you read the Bible, the
Bible uh the Old Testament basically is fundamentally about the relationship between God and the historic people, the
Jews. And problems arise when the Jews turn away from God.
Um, so for example, when Moses was leading uh the people from exile in
Egypt to the promised land, the people chose to worship an idol and the first commandment is do not worship false idols.
So God had to punish them by making them wander the desert for 40 years. Okay?
And this is a consistent theme throughout the Old Testament where Jews suffer because they turn away from God.
So the most most traumatic event in the Bible is the destruction of the first temple where the Babylonians come in and
they destroy the first temple. Now if you read the Bible, the book is is Jeremiah. What Jeremiah the prophet says
is the Babylonians are not the enemy of God. They are the tool of God to punish
the Israelites for turning away from God. Okay?
Right? So if you just extend the logic, then the logic is this. Why did the Holocaust happen? Not because of Hitler,
but because the Jews turned away from God. And so there's groups that believe that.
That's right. So um at this point in history, the year is 1900 when Zionism comes into being.
Most Jews think Zionism is I'm a Jewish person living in Germany, living in United States, living in England. I've assimilated into society.
I'm I'm a professor. I'm a doctor. I'm doing well for myself. I'm secular. Uh I have lots of friends who are Christians.
And what does secular mean? Secular means non-religious. Okay.
Right. So it's like why would I go to a desert called Palestine? It's not even called Israel. It's called Palestine where
there was already people living there and it's like it's like literally a desert, right? So only about 3% of the global Jewish population at this point
in history, the years 1900, actually support the idea of Zionism. Okay?
Right? So the Holocaust had to happen in order to force the Jews to uh hold their
covenant with God because the Jews were created as God's chosen people. They are the light of nations. They are meant to
show uh true faith in God and therefore um uh be virtuous and be the the moral uh guidance for the world.
Okay. So they were chosen to be an example of God.
They're chosen to be the light of nations. They're chosen to to be the best representatives of humanity.
Okay. Yes. Um so some so you're saying that some like devout Jewish people religious or an extreme this is an
extreme group believe that the Holocaust was supposed to happen because um the people in the Bible had turned away from
uh had turned away from God right? Is that what you're saying?
So um yes or no you're saying um okay so let me clarify what they believe the mission of the Jewish people
is. Okay. The mission of the Jewish people is to return to Israel,
create the greater Israel project, uh, which is the promised land, and then build the third temple, um, which will be the house of God.
Okay.
Okay. So, the purpose of history is to force a reunion between the Jewish
people and God. And once that happens then the world will end and we will be in paradise forever. So there must be
three there must three things must happen for this world to end. Okay. The first thing that must happen is the greater Israel project has to be
achieved and therefore we have these wars in the Middle East.
But why would that have to be achieved if that was something that was just developed 30 years ago?
Because according to these people, the original covenant between the Jewish people and God is that God promised them
the land stretching from the Nile in Egypt to Euphrates in Iraq.
Okay? As the covenant, okay? And the Jewish people once they receive this land, they must be loyal to uh God. So
for God to return uh first of all his promise must be kept. Okay.
Okay. So the first thing is the greater Israel project must be achieved. Second thing that must happen is all Jewish people must return to Israel and repent.
Meaning if you don't believe in God, you have to believe in God if you're Jewish.
Meaning if you're homosexual, if you're Jewish, better tighten it up.
You better you better like learn how to like, you know, better figure it out. Yeah. You you know. Dang. Yeah. That's going to be a long day.
Yeah. Yeah. uh start liking this man. So that's the third third second thing and the third thing uh is the third temple
must be built because that's where God will live. Okay, got it.
But the problem is the site of the third temple is now where the Alex mosque is.
The mosque is the third holiest site in the Muslim world. So if they destroy the alic moss in order to build a third
temple, this would trigger a religious war between Jews and the Muslims. Oh wow.
Yeah. So the these are three things that must happen according to the esquetology.
Okay. So but you're not saying that's going to happen. You're just saying that that if you look at that that's according to what is that according to
that's according to um their esquetology which is what they believe um how the world ends and how we achieve heaven on earth.
But who believes that? Like my Jewish friends, I don't think believe that. That's right. That's right.
Wait, wait. What's right? They do believe it or they don't believe it.
They don't believe this. Um, this theory. Okay. What I just told you, the vast majority of Jewish people who are religious think this is heresy.
Okay.
This is madness. It's insane. Okay. The problem is that this ideology
is promoted by secret societies around the world. Okay? And secret societies control the world.
And that's why we're seeing a lot of things happen because how else can you explain why the United States is attacking Iran for no particular reason.
I mean it's definitely look I think a lot of people believe it. It's at the behest of Israel. There's some involvement there. But I think uh yeah I
but after that it's like yeah you kind of don't know why. A lot of it's just like questions and you don't get a lot of information sometimes like you know you'll ask political figures and stuff
why are we so embedded here? And a lot of them don't have an answer. Um, and so I think that's the part that seems kind of alarming. And I think that's also the
part when you don't get a lot of clear information, that's when a lot of like conspiracy theories, different ideas, um,
uncertainties, ideas like this even start to take even more shape because you don't know. You're not and you're
not getting information from people who should know. So, I think it's like I do understand how people can start to uh I
I I Yeah, it makes perfect sense how people can start to believe things and how people can start to look into things because there's no place to get real news anymore. There's no place to get the information.
Yeah. And you know, a lot of things that are happening right now just defy human logic. So, um everyone's looking at
Donald Trump is like the war is lost already. Just make peace with Iran. Just get out of there. And what Trump is
doing is doing he's doing taco. Like one day he's like, "We're going to end your civilization." And the other day is like, "Let's make peace, guys. Let's
just be friends." And the next day he's like, "No, I'm going to nuke you now." And next day he's like, "Oh, you know what? Um, I didn't really mean that." It's just weird.
Yeah. It feels bizarre. It feels pointless, but it matches with everything feels bizarre right now. And I and and like the way that Trump is
behaving right now goes against his character because in the 80s and 90s he was a real estate developer. He was a business person, right? He he understood
like if you do business you need to have credibility. You can't flip-flop because like everyone will be scared of you.
I agree. That's actually a really good point. I mean even when he was running for office, it seemed like every other thing it seems like he knows exactly what he's talking about. It seems like he knows exactly where he stands. So,
it's this really weird situation where um how the United States is behaving in uh the Middle East, it goes against
American interests and the way that Donald Trump is behaving, it goes against his character. He's never behaved like this before.
Chapter 12: Power of transnational capital
Um you you you spoke of you you mentioned a little bit ago about secret societies, right? Um can you take me into some of that and how that and you
said that you believe that that's some of what is controlling some of this secret societies rule the world. Okay.
So let me you believe secret societies rule the world.
Yes. Okay. So let me explain why that's the case. Okay.
All right. So the power in the world is what we call transnational capital.
Right. And transial capital all it means is money that is able to move freely around the world and invest where it
wants and extract profit from these places. And so transial capital would include pension funds. It would include
sovereign wealth funds. You want to include uh private capital such as like State Street, Vanguard, Wall Street, city of London.
China has a huge sovereign wealth fund.
That's right. That's right. So Sovereign So Capital is a huge entity and you know they say money makes the world go
around. Okay. So Treasure controls the um uh world and
so money controls the world you're saying basically. Okay. So um but but the problem is that um treasure capital is a
game and it's a game.
It's a game game, right? Because you're trying to maximize your profit. You're trying to beat others in the stock market.
And in any game, there's a certain way to win, right? And the answer and so like how do you win every single game? Like
no matter what game you play, what's the secret to winning every game?
Get to the end. Uh the answer is you cheat.
Okay, you play by the rules. If you work hard and you play fair, you're a sucker.
Okay, to win the game, you have to cheat. And the best way to cheat is to secretly conspire with others to wake the game in your favor.
Okay, and that's why we have secret societies, right? Because to win the game of capital, you need three things.
First of all, you need access to secret information. You need to know more things than other people know. Second thing you need is infiltration. You need
your people to go in the government in order to create policies that favor you.
The third thing is you need coronation, conspiracy between these different groups in order to uh create an outcome that you want.
Right? So um an example um is the Rothschild family. And the Rothschild family became one of the most powerful banking families in the world because
they had a secret uh network of agents scattered throughout Europe. So in 1815
Napoleon fights the battle of Waterloo and um obviously he loses and the
Rothschild has an agent who witnessed the battle. Then he sends this information to back to England on a
corvette which is a fast ship. Then what happens is rumors spread that the English lost the war and now there's
tremendous fear and that wasn't true. It was not true that they they won but but the first rumor the agent got there and spread a rumor.
Well well we don't know. Okay. But but but but there were rumors that they lost the war which created a panic and the Rothschild were able to make a lot of
money doing that. Okay. And that's and like this is very common and and so this shows you an example of how information is crucial if you want to win the game of trust capital.
Got it.
Right. And so but but so the corvette got there but the fast ship got there and and knew in advance that the Roth house knew in advance
the Rothsell knew in advance the war that the battle had been won and 3 days later official news came to the British public tell them that the battle
had been won but during these three days there's mass panic because rumors are spreading that the battle has been lost.
I see. So the Ross was able to capitalize on that panic financially.
That's right. And so that's when people started realizing oh we can do this.
Right. Right. And so think about our the world that we live in today, right?
Where if you're if you have like one minute of um confidential information, you're able to make millions, billions,
right? So the question then is like how do you access this information? Well, you do so through transnational
networks. And throughout history, there have been three major transnational networks in Europe. The first is uh the
Freemasons. The second are the Jesuits and the third are the Jewish diaspora.
And at some point they figured out, why don't we just work together? Oh, and what they call themselves. The Illuminati.
Damn.
Yeah, I heard about it. My black friends are always talking about them, man. Yeah, the the Illuminati.
Dang, they got us. The Illuminati. And it is a name given to several groups, both real and fictitious. Historically, the name usually refers to the Bavarian
Illuminati, an enlightenment era secret society founded on May 1st, 1776 in the electorate of Bavaria. Um, the
Illuminati along with Freemasonry and other secret societies were outlawed through edict by Charles Theodore. Uh, in the subsequent use, Illuminati has
been used when referring to various organizations alleged to be a continuation of the original Illuminati.
These organizations have often been accused of conspiring to control world affairs by masterminding events and planting agents in governments and
corporations in order to gain political power, influence, and establish a new world order. Dun I mean at the end of the day, if you if
Trev controls the world, you need societies to win the game.
Got it. So there's so so in addition to there being countries, there's these different countries.
They're above countries, but they're above countries. Wow. And so they'll have members of different countries that are in partner that are part of them.
So think of Jeffrey Epstein, right? So everyone's thought that Jeffrey Epstein was a Mossad agent. He was above Mossad. Wow. Dang. Yeah.
Do you believe that Jeffrey Epstein is still alive? Um I don't think he's alive.
Yeah. Because do you think he died in the jail cell?
I Yes. Yes. Yes. Because he he's expandable. Yeah.
What is the basic code do you think of the Illuminati? Do you think they have a code? Um that's a great question. Okay.
So once you have these secret societies, you have to remember like secret societies are just a natural outcome of the game of transial capital. So you
have like many many different secret societies in in place. And so which societies have the most have the greatest advantage? And the answer is
uh those who practice esquetology have the greatest advantage?
Esquetology, right? Estology is the belief uh in that God will end the world at some point.
Okay. And so why are you so why is it that esquetological societies are superior to other societies? And the
reason why is they're able to channel the religious energy of millions of people.
So look at so why we're having this war in the um Middle East. It's not just secret societies. It's also the fact
that you have tens of millions of Christian um Zionists, Christian evangelicals who support Israel,
right? So if you're you're an investor, there are three ways to make the most money. The first is war, second is revolution, and the third is religion.
So these two studies through the esquetology always supporting war, revolution and religion because if you're if you're millionaire well you
invest your money in stock market but if you're a trillionaire you invest your money in war, revolution and religion. Wow.
Chapter 13: Global tensions and North Korea
But don't you do do you have do you think that sometimes it's kind of a d like is it like if you if you think of
it all like that, right? Doesn't it feel pretty dark?
It is uh dark. But once you actually study the esquetology, once you study the religion, it actually gives you
hope. Um because what motivates uh these people is not greed. Um it's not um
power, it's faith, it's they're accelerationists. They believe that God has a divine plan and all I'm doing is helping God accelerate this plan.
Wow.
Oh my gosh, dude. What the heck? So, this is so that's part of some people's faith. They believe they have a strong
enough faith that they believe that what they're doing is helping to accelerate it.
That's right. [sighs] Oh my gosh. I don't even know what to think anymore.
And that's why things are happening so fast, dude. It does. It does. It Yeah, it feels like things are happening so fast.
Yeah, that's it's just like what is h it's happening so fast. Yeah. So, how does this end?
[laughter]
I mean, that's kind of dark. But, um, maybe we just leave it to be continued, you think? Yeah.
Well, we can pray that that doesn't happen because we don't know that.
That's We don't know that's going to happen, right?
They put their faith in God. We should put our faith in God. Amen. Yeah. That's where my faith is. Yep.
In Jesus name, man. Amen, brother. We just have to keep our faith where we can. And we can we control what we can control. And it's always if if that's
the case and it's always been part of something. Yes.
You know, and it's like all we can do is do just do what we can and try our best by our own compass, right? That's right. Amen. That's right. Amen.
Yeah. [snorts] Jesus. Believe in Jesus. Yeah. Amen. Um you are you're Chinese?
I Yes. Thank you. I asked.
Okay. Sorry. I just making sure I didn't know. I don't know for sure if you are or not. Um what what's what's ch some people have has anybody ever said they
thought you were a plant that you they thought you Oh yeah yeah absolutely what do you get okay so now and then because you'd be a good Chinese asset.
Yeah. Yeah. Well there are people who believe I'm the antichrist.
There are people who believe that I'm in my Chinese classroom with my whiteboard and my my my whiteboard is magical. So I can actually like direct the course of human events with my with my whiteboard.
I'm just there and I'm just like I want war and I want you know and I'm like like I'm not the antichrist. Okay. All right. I swear to you I'm not the
antichrist. Okay. I might be a Chinese spy but I'm not the but I'm not the antichrist. Okay.
Speaking of that, speaking of China, what is China's relationship right now?
Where do they play a role? Cuz you didn't factor them into this at all.
Yeah. China China looks at what's happening and they're like, "What the is going on? What the hell are you
guys doing?" That's that's China. Do you think that they're hyper worried?
Do they have a lot of like um do they have a lot of intelligence assets that are over here working in that are working in the Middle East? What do you think's going on? I'm sure cuz they
obviously they're a world power. They're going to have they're they're going to be concerned and involved.
Yeah. So, the problem with China is that Chinese are non-religious. So, it's almost impossible for Chinese to
appreciate what's happening in the uh Middle East.
But they're capitalists though. uh they're they're capitalists and they want this war to end as soon as possible because they want people to trade with each other. Uh
Chinese don't go to war, they they trade. Um and so everyone in China is just completely confused, but historically China they've been they've there's been war in China.
Well, there's war um within China, but China doesn't really go out and invade other countries um the way that you know
the United States does. So, what is America's current relationship with China? Do you feel like I've I've had friends recently say that they think the
safest place to move in the world right now is China?
Yeah, I think I think that what's happening is a domino effect where the war in the Middle East spirs out of
control and it engulfves everyone. So, um like a World War II. Yeah. And it's like total war.
And what would the sides be?
um it'll be complete chaos. Um so the idea is that the war the world will
break out into into regional wars. So imagine in uh Europe NATO is fighting
Russia in Ukraine, right? And uh there's a possibility that Russia may take over
the Baltic countries, Latvia, uh Luania, Estonia, and maybe even attack Poland. Okay. So, imagine all of
Europe is now in flames. You move over to the Middle East and everyone's at
each other's throat, right? You move over to East Asia. What the most likely
scenario is that China is in conflict with Japan and North Korea is in conflict with South Korea.
The real danger in East Asia is not China. It's actually North Korea because North Koreans have abely nothing to
lose. They're kind of crazy and they're brave. So North Koreans have been sending soldiers to fight in Ukraine and they fight to the death.
Is that true?
Yeah. 10,000 North Korean troops in 10,000 North Korean troops in Ukraine right now.
Uh yeah, in Ukraine. That's right. And they fight to the death. And the reason why is they're captured. Their family members back in North Korea get killed. Yeah.
No way. Welcome to a dictatorship.
North Korea continues to expand its military support for Russia in the war against Ukraine. In addition to sending troops and weaponry, Pyongyang is now
said to have deployed a missile unit to western Russia. Wow. By the end of 2024, Ukraine, the United States, and the South Korea estimated that around 10,000
to 12,000 North Korean soldiers have been sent to Russia. And that's just 2024.
That's right. So they're trying turn the number to 30,000. Wow.
Yeah. Unbelievable. Um, I've heard you talk about the grand bargain.
Chapter 14: The US-China grand bargain
Yes. [clears throat] With China and that's between America and China. That's right. Tell me a little more about that.
Right. So, there are two nations that currently benefit the most from the current global economic order. They are the United States and China. Um, the
United States obviously because it controls the US dollar, but but China as well because China was able to lift millions out of poverty because of
global trade, right? So both are heavily invested in maintaining the current global order.
And so the idea of a grand bargain is that they uh resolve the Taiwan issue uh
where basically China um and Taiwan sign an agreement. Oh.
Where they reconcile politically and the United States withdraws from uh East
Asia and allows China to maybe dominate um East Asia. Okay, understood. So that allow so that's something that China
would want probably just a little bit more assurance that there's that they don't have to deal with America over there.
That's right. But but but also like for China, Taiwan is a huge political issue because uh you know there's something
called a century of humiliation where China was carved up in the 19th century by the Russian powers and having Taiwan back uh in the fold of
the motherland would be a tremendous political achievement because it would mean the reunification of the motherland, the completion of the motherland and that's that's something that China would pay a huge price for.
And right now, uh, the United States needs China to buy more US treasuries. So that's the idea of the grand bargain. Got it.
What do you think's going on with America right now? Do you feel like we're still, uh, the world's economic superpower?
Um, it's an empire in decline. Um, it's like I'm just walking the streets of Los Angeles
and um, it really seems that America is on the brink of a civil war and really you think that?
Yeah. How would that happen though?
Yeah. I I think that u the midterms will be a major test of the cohesion of this
country. Um, and what I think um may happen is Trump may may go for a third term.
No way. How could he do it? Can't you only go for two terms?
So, according to the Constitution, there's something called the 22nd Amendment, which says that um a US president may not sit for more than two
terms. But there's a loophole. The loophole is imagine 2028,
Dawn Jr. is at the top of the ticket and Donald Trump is the vice president.
They win and then uh Don Jr. he resigns and then Donald Trump is now the president again.
No way. You think that you think that's going to happen?
I think there's a strong possibility this could happen. But also there's the War Powers Act where America's at war and so they suspend the Constitution which is what happened in Ukraine.
That's why Ukraine could not have an election, right? because they're at war.
And if they could have an election, would they still elect Zalinsky, do you think? Probably not. Got it. Yeah.
There's a lot of there's a lot of darkness out there. Yeah.
Um, what are some positives that you see? What are things What's a positive way that you see out of some of this?
And please have an answer for me, Professor.
Yeah. Family, love, God. I mean, that's why we're here. We're here to experience things that we couldn't experience
anywhere else because we're eternal souls. Like once you appreciate that um this is only what the thing that we're
experiencing here is only a journey in a eternity of experiences and that we're here to experience things that are
unique to this world. And one thing that's unique to this world is family like having children.
Um so and love. And love. Exactly. Hugging somebody. Exactly. Yeah. Doing your best. Yeah.
Chapter 15: Finding personal hope and meaning
Being supportive. Sharing. So, so if you just focus on what's happening geopolitically, you go insane. You literally go insane. Are you insane yet?
Um, I have a family, right? So, and I I have a I have a wife who um who who loves me. So, I I I want
to tell you um the story of how my wife and I met and then and you can appreciate how much we love each other. Okay.
Okay. So, we met each other about 10 years ago and I'm about 40 and this is like the darkest moment in my life. what was going on?
Well, I was unemployed. Um, I had no place to stay and I was depressed and I felt that life was hopeless. And I I
literally believed that my wife was an angel sent by God to redeem me, to save me, to show me that love is possible. So
that one day I could be sitting across from you telling the world that love is um possible. And if we just move towards
love, then we will redeem the world. But but so I meet this my my wife randomly and we go on a first date. And where did you meet her at?
Um I I met her randomly at at an event. Okay.
And it was like love at first sight. And I and I you know I asked for her number.
I called her out. And and the if you ask for it, God will give it to you. And I was asking for someone
uh who could be my wife. I I wanted to start a family. And so we go on on this date and I I took her someplace really nice in Beijing, we go to a Japanese
restaurant. I order sake and it's a lovely um date. Now the custom in China
is that on the first date, if you really like someone um the woman will will get serious suddenly. Okay, I mean
you could be laughing throughout, but suddenly the like the woman will get really serious, look at you dead in the eye and ask you
how much money do you make? Like what's the size of your bank account?
Really? That's a ser that's a real thing that happens.
Yeah, because in United States you like like you know they'll ask you what what your your dick size is, right? Yeah.
Well, we're more advanced civilization so we ask like how much money you have.
Got it. Okay. So, okay. And like I'm really afraid we reach this point, right? So, this date is going fantastic.
We're two hours and we're just laughing.
We're connecting. We're some paddico and then the uh my date my my future wife gets
serious looks at me dead in the eye and I'm freaking out. I'm trembling. I'm nervous because like cuz you don't have a job.
I don't job, man. Yeah.
And so she looks at me in the eye and she asks me, "So, are you gay?" Oh, and I and I I I felt such relief. I knew she's the one, man.
She gets me, [laughter] right?
Yeah. Yeah. She doesn't care if I'm poor. She just cares if I'm gay. Yes. I can work with that, you know? Yeah, dude. Of course. Yeah.
But, but it's like these moments that make this world so wonderful and so blessed. So, we should just focus on on on moments like like this.
Yeah. Yeah. moments where people are asking if you're gay or not.
Yeah. Well, it's better than asking for, you know, your thick size or, you know, your bank account. Yeah.
Oh, yeah. For sure. I think Yeah, it is better than asking what how much money you make. Yeah.
I'm so happy that you that you found that you got somebody cuz you were 40 and you didn't think you were going to have someone.
That's right. [clears throat] I I I thought that I I was my life I I was a drift. I thought that life was pointless.
What were you doing? Were you living at home?
No, I was like literally living uh from uh place to place with my suitcase. I had no place to live. Uh I was unemployed.
Don't they give you a job in China? Like tell me a little bit more. What is it like in China? Like Yeah. Yeah. So, so I went to China to
work as an education reformer. So I I believe like the best way to build a good future. But you were you grew up there?
No. No. So So my background is um I was born in China, but when I was six, I moved over to Canada and and that's where I grew up. Then I went to Yale University.
Dang. Cool.
Yeah. Yeah. And then um I went back to China to help reform the school system.
I love Canada, man. Did you live in Winnipeg? No, I lived in Toronto.
Oh, dang. Yeah. I'm hoping my friend Diego Pave goes up there and plays for Canada. Yeah.
Um like, you know, Canada's really cool, but you know, we're we're a bit slow. We have five years of high school rather than four. Yeah. You know, so so you
know, our IQ is a bit lower than than the Americans, but you guys have great posture up there.
Can Canada has some of the best posture in the whole world, I've noticed. Um that's something that I've noticed. Um, okay. So, you end up back over there in
China. Um, but yeah. Is it like do you hear a lot of stories that like people can only have one child? Like what are some of the policies that are true over there that we hear about?
Well, you know, the one child policy was uh true for a long time, but then um Chinese were aging and there were not enough children to support the elderly.
So they um and then the birth rate was declining and so they promoted policies um to encourage more fertility and now
you can have as many children as you want. Nice.
But but but I mean the reality is like most young people do not want to have children. It's a situation I mean it's a similar situation throughout the world
like in United States young Americans don't want to have children. Europeans are the same same way. Right now the
fertility rate in East Asia uh in North in South Korea I think it's 0.6.
Uh in China it's 1.0. In Japan it's like 1.2 1.3 but it's really low.
World population prospects the United Nations publisher. What chart is this Nick? Can you tell me?
Yeah it's uh I think this is world fertility rate.
In 1963 it was 5.3 births per woman and now it's 2.2 births per woman.
Huh.
That's wild. And China has 1.0, one birth per woman. Yeah.
And wait, who has that big? Go to the top and hit the tops. Chad, uh, Congo, they have six births per women. Niger, uh, Mosmbique, five births for women.
So, my wife has seven college roommates. There's eight in her dorm. And, uh, we have three kids.
Oh, you guys have three kids. We have three kids. And I met your one son, Christopher. He's here today. That's right. That's right. Yes.
And um so she uh they're in their 30s, which is a prime age to have um children and collectively they have three kids.
Yeah. So So it's not happening. No, it's not happening. Yeah.
Um we've looked at some stuff today that's that seems kind of der, but it's also interesting, you know. Um do you think that peace is an option? And how
would we get there? Do you feel like like what has to adjust?
I think that for the longest time we've trusted our leaders to um I agree with you and we thought they had our best interest.
That's right. That's right. And in fact it's controlled by secret societies and they're crazy people who want to achieve their esquetology and it's time for us
to wake up and if we collectively wake up then we will achieve peace in this world. But waking up is a hard process.
Yes. As you know, right, it's a very hard process. It means going against social conventions. It means defying all
that you've been taught. It it means losing a lot of friends and family in the process.
Have you suffered from uh even speaking out about certain things and like have you like had any issues like come your way? Have you ever fear fear for your safety? Have you had people that have
spoken up against you or like what's that what's that been like for you?
Yeah. So, um, one thing that I think a lot about is what are the consequences
for telling the truth, for speaking up, for drawing attention to societies. And
here's my logic. I think that these people get to where they are because
they are uh they really do believe in God. But the God they believe in may not be the God that we believe in, right?
But they really do believe in God. And they really believe that what they're doing is doing God's will and they're
accelerating events that were uh predestined by God since the beginning of time.
And so I present a paradox to them because I seem to know their plans, right? Mhm.
And so, um, if I don't get their plans correct, then I'm an idiot and they can just ignore me. But if I'm able to
articulate their plans, then how am I able to know all this? Because I'm not part of the societies.
I'm I don't know any of these people, but at the same time, I know how they think and I know uh what their plan is.
So, they can't resolve this paradox. So they the only they can do is ignore me. I'm calling dissonance. Does that make sense?
Right. If they were to come for you, then it would prove that there's something true about their plan. Is that what you're saying?
No. If they So in their mindset, if the only way I could know their plan is if
God told me their plan, but they think that they're doing God's work. So,
how do they explain the fact that they're God's telling them what to do, but also God's telling me to tell the world that their plan's bad, what what the plans are.
So, they're like, "Well, we don't know how to resolve this. So, let's just ignore this guy." Yeah.
Do you uh Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. One more point is the idea of um
um it so there's a theory out there that um a lot of these societies they
reveal to you what their plan is and the reason why is um let's just say they screw up and they
blow up the world and we're all go to heaven and then God asks hey so what happened how did you blow up the earth?
Um, well, most of us would be like, "We didn't know what was going on." Right.
Right. So, they get all the blame. But let's just say they tell us their entire plan. Oh, right. Then it's all of our faults.
Then it's our fault. We're complicit in our own destruction. Yeah. Right. So, maybe I'm a useful tool.
Maybe I'm a useful idiot who mysteriously is able to decipher their plans. I'm telling telling them the world what's happening. But the
secrets are like that's cool with us because now if everyone knows what's happening and they do nothing, everyone's complicit.
Ah, and so yeah, we've all come become very complicit with things being okay. Yeah. Is it the same in China?
Yes. Yes. Exactly. It's kind of heartbreaking sometimes.
It's like I don't know what happened. I don't know if there's been like this a slow sedation. Yeah.
I can't tell what occur what has occurred. I can't tell if you know I don't know. It all just feels like we've lost some of our
The great truth is that we're all spiritual beings.
We are first and foremost spiritual beings. That's true. But materialism has corrupted us.
We should be focused on our spiritual well-being, on our consciousness, on elevating ourselves, on being generous, on being open, on being on being
spiritual. And now we live in a world where money is everything. So we just pursue
u materialism, right? We're so Yeah. You're so focused your whole life and it's all built towards this. You got to go to school to get a grade, to get a a college, to get
a job, to get a thing, and then get from a and to get a house. There's everything is like the next carrot. It's always something. We are in the matrix. Yeah.
And we have to wake up. Wow. Dang.
We are in the matrix. Hello. We're in here. We want out.
Whoever's seeing us, we want out.
Um, we're in an interesting spot, it feels like, with um Oh, was that CERN accelerated? Did that have anything to do with how time has been adjusted, do
you think, or No, do you see anything about that? I I don't know much about it either. Okay. Yeah.
Um, one thing I I wanted to ask you before you leave, uh, financially, you've talked about um, about the transnational capital capital.
Yeah.
What would you do with money or assets right now? Like what do you feel like the future of that could look like? Have you thought about that much?
Yeah. So, I think that the world is heading towards financial collapse. Um, and it's pretty clear with the AI
bubble, right? where, you know, they're building uh these data centers and it's really uncertain how they will make
money out of these data centers and it really seems the a a bubble is going to burst and uh it really seems that um the
United States is heading towards financial collapse and and so I think that you know trying to figure out where to put your money
it's it's a dead end. You have you have to think about how do I lift my consciousness so that I'm ready to help
myself as well as others in a time of crisis. Ah okay. Right. So what could I create right now?
What could I start to have around me or what knowledge could I start to have? Yes.
Cuz if the grid goes down suddenly you're just back to your own knowledge. That's right.
And dude a lot of us if we had to go back to our own knowledge bro Yeah. would be bunk. Yeah. We're we're dead. Yeah.
Yeah. So, but it will be exciting. Yeah.
But I do think you're right. It's like what skills would you have? What can you apply? How could you help someone? What could you offer? Yeah.
And in a weird way, man, I feel like it's almost what we could use the most. Is that scary to say that?
Look, I I think that what you do um telling jokes is exactly what we will need in a time of crisis.
We we need in a time of darkness to see the light. And laughing is the best way to see it to see the light.
Yeah. Yeah, man. Telling stories, being a part of joy, sitting around, people laughing. That's my favorite thing. That's right.
Yeah. Sometimes I got lost, I think, on just like what was important, you know, the past few years. It's been fun. I've been having a good time, but some of it's just been like Yeah. I don't know.
You get you get you get focused and you kind of you don't lose yourself, but you you feel a little disconnected from yourself, you know? Yeah. So, you know,
I work in school uh reform and what my theory is that a school
should be centered around laughter because if kids come into class laughing, Yeah. they learn the best. They're engaged.
They're excited. So, uh there was a science experiment uh many years ago uh called a scientific experiment.
Yeah. Yeah. Called Laugh Club. Okay. And so this Indian doctor all he did was bring in people together at a park
and just laugh together and laughter and laughing is infectious right? So if someone's laughing other people are laughing. Yeah.
And um he just asked people to pretend to laugh like haha. But what was magical is like once you start to pretend to
laugh and other people are laugh as well. People start to laugh naturally.
Yeah. And what he discovered is people who participate in laugh club every morning, the kids would go to school and pay more attention in class.
Wow.
The um adults would go to work and have less stress and the um elderly would uh be much more resilient against disease.
They recover from disease faster. Yes, it's called Laugh Club. The Laughing Club of India usually refers to Mera
Nars short documentary about Mumbai's early laughter club movement, not a single exclusive organization. The film follows groups who meet often in parks
to do stretching, clapping, breathing exercises, and deliberate group laughter as a social and stress relief practice.
The movement was begun in Mumbai in 1995 by physician Dr. Madan Qataria. Its earliest meetings used, but participants
quickly shifted to laughter exercises when the jokes ran out. Huh? This is a movement you should start. United States.
Amen, bro. We need some things. We need to feel inspired. And And I don't mean I don't even mean you, whoever's listening. I mean me.
I mean, yeah, there's just I don't know.
I'm glad we're talking about it today. I do feel like there is an awakening in some ways. And I do feel like yeah, we have been stuck in this matrix. Um
uh I've heard you talk before you leave and thank you so much for your time today.
No, it was great. Fantastic. Really cool, man. Thank you. You know, I came with purpose, which which is tell the joke about my wife and like the gay joke, and I've done that. So, I'm I'm
I'm good. [laughter] Okay. Good. Yeah.
Uh I've heard we a lot of what we consume nowadays is very um there's huge filters on it. It's like the information that we get, what's allowed to come
through. Um you know, I think we saw that after like the a lot of information came out about Gaza. It's like now I don't see many videos about it anymore.
Yeah. I think a lot of it just, you know, um there's a lot of strongholds on who has who who is letting information through to us.
That's right.
Uh how do you I've heard you talk about a propaganda test before. What's a propaganda test that you use to know if something is propaganda or not?
Yeah. So, um I think what's really important is um for people to make predictions.
Um because whenever we uh say something, we're we're we're making certain assumptions about the world. And so the
way for us to know if the way we understand the world is correct or not is by extending the logic and making predictions about how the world should
turn out. And if it doesn't turn out the way that uh we predicted then we should just reflect on on how we think and make
changes to ourselves. And I think the the greatest problem in the world that we have today is gatekeeping. There's too much gatekeeping in media. There's
too much gatekeeping in academics. So for example, I'm not really a professor, right? I I not I'm not a professor. I'm a high school teacher.
Okay.
I don't have a PhD, right? So, so just for um yeah, just be for honesty. Okay, but that's just gatekeeping like where where
you know if you're not a college professor, you don't you don't have a PhD, you're not a specialist, you're not you don't get get to be called a professor. Okay, so there's just too
much gatekeeping going on. I I think that what's one way to improve our society is if experts are forced to make
predictions because now we know how good their knowledge set is. Right.
Ah, right. And now it's democratic. Now, now it's not just like you're Harvard PhD and therefore you know what you're doing. No, no, it's like you you are show your work.
Yeah, exactly.
Show your work, right, bro? I like that. Yeah, let's be democratic.
Yeah. A basketball player, it's like you don't just believe he's good if he tells you. That's right. Or you believe he's good because he went to a lot of basketball camps. He's got to go do it.
Look, look at co, right? I mean, during CO, they were roll out these vaccines.
Oh, dude. Anthony Fouch is a it dude that does it. Look, look, look. And he and he he was like, "How dare you question the science? We know better uh
than uh than you. We we have your best interest at heart. Just obey us. Trust the science, bro." Yeah.
And that was it. And it's like, "Okay, fine. Show me the science because
[laughter]
you know, show me." I know. It's the Matrix, man. Yeah.
I'm glad we got to meet at least here in the Matrix.
Yeah. Yeah. Well Well, everything happens for a purpose. Yeah.
You know, and like you know, I really respect what you do. You bring truth to the world through through laughter and that's really the most powerful way of communicating.
Well, thank you, uh, Professor Young.
Um, I appreciate it. Yeah, I just appreciate that. Like, it's just interesting. I think one thing that is great about social media and, uh, and
technology is just the different, um, people that you can, uh, bear witness to, you know, and different people that can get their voice out there. And I
think it's great that you've developed a voice for yourself. Um, what do you what do your students think about it? What do they what do they think about it in China?
Um, so are you more popular here than in China? I'm way more popular here than in China.
People think I'm absolutely insane in in China. Uh, why is it because you're brave? You put yourself out there. Is that a thing that
doesn't happen very much in China where people kind of put like Yeah. Um, so I I think that a lot of things I say are dark.
Oh, yeah. And so they uh would rather be ignorant. Oh, I see. Ignorance is bliss.
Yeah. Oh, it is, man. I used to be so ignorant, dude. And I was doing great.
Yeah, absolutely. I was doing great, dude.
Yeah. But you know, once you achieve full knowledge, you'll do even better.
Oh, I don't I'll never get there. But
[gasps]
yeah, a little bit at a time, man. It's always about the journey. Yeah. It's always about the journey. Yeah.
Yeah. And yeah, connecting with the people that you love. That's what God put us here for. That's why we're here. That's right. Family.
We're here to have experiences that mean something. Yes.
Yeah. Um, Professor Jang, thank you so much for your time today. Uh, travel safe. How do you say goodbye in Chinese? Zen.
Yes. Okay. Zen.
Okay. Now I'm just floating on the breeze and I feel I'm falling like these [music] leaves. I must be corner stone.
Oh, but when I reach that ground, I'll share this piece of mind I [music] found. I can feel it in my bones.
But it's going to take
￼
All
￼
For you

