The Geopolitics of Modern Encroachment
Hello and welcome to another episode of India and Global Left. If you are new to the show, please hit that subscribe
button. Also consider becoming a YouTube member. A patron donate small amount given in the link in the description
box. Without further ado, let me welcome our guest tonight KJ. No. KJ is a
journalist, an author and an educator. His expertise lies in geopolitics, US
imperialism and East Asia. KJ, welcome back to Indian Global Left. Thank you.
Pleasure to be with you. Lot to cover but I I thought we could
Greenland and the Battle for Resources
start with the recent breaking news about US taking control of uh Greenland
security. We are particularly hearing two things. Uh one is US exclusive
rights of investments and we know Greenland is quite important for the
rare earths and there is the China angle there. um uh uh with regards to US
strategy and then we are also hearing about building up uh new base assets in
the region for the United States. uh how do you look at the implication of what
is going on with Greenland in the context of taking Venezuelan assets,
strangulaging Cuba and tariffing China and war in in Iran, continuing the NATO
war in Ukraine? How do you put that in perspective? Well, I think it's more of
the same in that it's a kind of continued encroachment over quote
unquote sovereign countries. Uh but uh you know once again let's understand you
know Greenland is a Danish colony. The Danish went colonized the Greenlanders.
They've been committing genocide since their inception. you know, Greenland uh
uh women are forced to take until about a year ago were forced to take an IQ
test around and about the time of their birth. Uh and this was administered in a
foreign language, Danish, and if they failed this IQ test, they would have their children taken away from them. And
so you can see that already there's a kind of genocidal colonial project. So
Greenland is having its colony taken away from itself. Uh the US has made
claims that you know Greenland gets to keep its sovereignty. We're just doing it for the security. But as you pointed
out, we don't know all the details because nobody has released the text, right? So already highly suspicious.
Release the text and then let everybody make their judgment. But we haven't seen a text. We've just seen just basic
pronouncement. But as far as we understand the US has exclusive rights to Greenland. Uh we know that you know
American and Australian and Canadian and US uh corporations have been salivating
at the prospect of controlling Greenland's uh rare earth or critical
minerals uh uh resources of which it's probably in the global top 10.
But the other thing uh apparently that this uh agreement uh puts forth is that
uh only the US can have military presence in Greenland. And so you can see that it's very very much a
geostrategic military move in order to control the seaw routts through the
Arctic. And then the other is to see if they can use Greenland to break China's uh monopoly on rare
earths. As we know, you know, China mines about 60% of uh global uh rare
earth elements and processes about 90% of them. The processing piece is the
most uh critical uh bottleneck if you will. Remember the modern society we
inhabit uh is based on electronics and electronics in order them for them
to have a use value for humans. That electronic current which is modulated
and stored and uh transformed in many different ways has to be transduced into
a use value for humans. And that use value transduction only happens through
the mediation of rare earth elements. In other words, modern society as we
understand it, modern society with electricity and electronics requires rare earth elements and China has an
effective monopoly over this. uh the US uh is seeking to see if it can
break uh this monopoly because this has vast strategic implications not simply
economically but also militarily. You know your average jet fighter has about
900 pound of rare earth elements. Uh other platforms have thousands of pounds
of rare earth elements. And when China choked off the US supply of rare earth
elements, in particular magnets, uh this put a panic through the US defense
industrial base. And now they're scrambling to see if they can find some other way, some other channels of
obtaining rare earth elements. Greenland, you know, is reputed to have
about a thousand years of uh ore of critical minerals. uh the US wants to
bring this kind of mine to magnet supply chain and build it inside the US or
inside the west. uh and uh they already you know have large ambitions
but one of the key things to understand and you know excuse me for being repetitive
is that the west has largely de-industrialized and as you de-industrialize not only do
you de-industrialize but you also deskkill so it doesn't have the
intellectual or the industrial capacity to refine rare earth elements ments the
way that China has been doing and has been developing over the past half a
century. This China didn't, you know, do this overnight. It spent uh half
a century building out its rare earth infrastructure and doing critical
research in rare earth refining. If there were any justice, you know, there would be multiple, you know, Nobel
prizes in sciences awarded to the Chinese researchers who built out this rare earth element industry. But the key
thing to understand about rare earth elements is they're critical for modern society, critical
for military uses, critical for electronics. They require vast complex
industrial uh uh processes of which China controls
not only the capacity but also the patents. Uh and
um rare earth elements themselves are not rare in and of themselves. It's just
that the concentration is very very diffuse. So for example, the most common
rare earth element has about the same concentration
uh in the earth's crust as uh you have iron in in the human body. That is to
say, there's hemoglobin in the hum in human blood. Uh, and you could
technically refine cadaavvers until you got enough iron to build a car or um,
you know, something out of uh, metal out of iron or steel. But it it's an
incredibly uh, repetitive, costly, and uh, belabored process. And
that is what the US is um, saying that they're going to build out within the
next few years. I don't see it happening. I really don't see it happening for the simple fact that
monopoly uh capital financializes, de-industrializes, deskkills, and
doesn't have that capacity. So, we'll see if it happens. But it certainly points out to the uh to the panic and
the desperation of the ruling western elite uh and their understanding that
rare earth elements really are a critical lever uh a critical uh leverage
point uh in whether the west can maintain its global imperial hegemony
over the rest of the world. On the point about building um military
The Arctic Military Build-up
assets in Greenland, uh I I think it is interesting to think about it a little
bit because while the rare art site does talk or reflect about its US competition
and war with China, the basis would bring to mind Russia uh because it's in
the Arctic and of course uh the US is not threatened by UK or France for that
matter. And so the only name that comes to mind is uh Russia and uh there we've
seen through this it proxy war with uh Ukraine with with Russia in Ukraine
uh there was a time with the Alaska summit uh uh at least there is sections
of pundits who are saying that Trump personally doesn't want to keep um the
hostility and war with Russia. It is the Lindsey Grahams and Blumenals and other
the military-industrial complex that wants to keep it and of course Europe. So basically Europe is subsidizing the
US military-industrial complex to keep the war alive in uh Ukraine. Uh but if
you think about US and Donald Trump and the Trump administration jacking up military assets in Greenland, um then
one could argue that the Trump administration and US larger strategy
about Russia is far from saying that we no longer see Russia as a threat because our only threat and enemy is China. Uh
well, one would argue that Russia is equally a threat and the relationship between US and Russia would not go in
the direction that many of us would have would like it to go. Uh, of course, with the mid midterm elections coming and if
the Democrats come to power, then of course you get a uh much easier ground
to keep Russophobia uh intact. So I I want you to explain to us a little bit
about what it reflects in terms of US relationship with Russia.
Well, it uh it signals that the US is still firmly firmly obsessed with
maintaining global hegemony and as you point out strategically uh it is very very important what the US has uh you
know a base uh in in Greenland uh put uh
TUK base uh and that is also a space base and it allows early detection of
missiles and the you know the you know uh projection of space assets. The other
thing that it does is US presence in Greenland threatens uh uh Russia's uh uh
nuclearpowered submarines. uh they are stationed off uh Cola Peninsula and that
by placing bases close to that uh that puts a direct threat uh against Russia's
nuclear deterrence uh as well as its uh it also threatens Russia's icebreaker
fleet as well. So this is these are very very aggressive moves. Uh and uh it
signals that US hostility, western hostility to Russia has not abated
despite you know the you know the surface uh you know discussions
happening. the US uh claim and US desire for agemany has not changed and we see
that you know Greenland and all of Europe is essentially going along with this plan. So uh on that level I
wouldn't expect any change uh either with the Democrats or the Republicans.
Uh I think that you know if we take away the surface scuttlebutt uh we see that
the agenda is still the same. They still want to dominate Russia. Uh they still
want to bleed it out. Uh they still want to uh essentially turn it into uh you
know a vassasalized uh appendage of Europe. And of course this goes back you
know to the larger picture what we call the 2 plus3 configuration which is there
are two revisionist powers two great enemies of the United States that Russia
and China and then there are three smaller enemies that are North Korea uh
Iran and uh non-state actors and essentially these non-state actors are
less important but the two great enemies of the US the two great revisionist
powers are Russia and China. So, nothing has changed and uh I think that we're
foolish to think that, you know, they'll be anything more than a change of of,
you know, style as far as Democrats or Republicans are concerned.
The Myth of the Western Left
Just as a side question, I'm curious your thoughts about the west uh about the US uh leftwing populist movements uh
understanding and analysis about it US relationship with Russia. Um do you
think the left that is in in in in in in many pockets of the US is in on the
rise? Um and it is in many ways uh the continuities of the discontentment after
um the the global financial crisis with Occupy Wall Street and Bernie Sanders movements. All of these are
manifestations. But my question to you or you is um even if uh or or or even
like by a miracle or something they are able to beat the establishment democrats
and they come to power do you think US relationship with Russia would change?
Um I doubt it. I mean I think the first point to make is that the US doesn't
have a meaningful left. what passes as the left in the United States would be
considered center left or centrist in most other countries in the world. Uh,
of course, you know, there is what we refer to as a certain kind of populism.
There's a certain kind of compatible left that has been inbred and inculcated
inside the United States. uh which isn't to say, you know, that there aren't genuinely
motivated and dedicated uh activists and thinkers. uh but they're so uh carefully
the vast majority are so carefully managed and sheep dogged that there isn't a meaningful left opposition uh in
the west and what passes for the west for the left you know the DSA types
these are essentially temporarily embarrassed labor aristocrats who are
you know uh upset that they've lost their usual privilege es. So, I don't
think that we're going to get meaningful change out of the DSA. You know, the Guardian has said, you know, there are
38 people with ties to Labor uh who are running for the Senate uh and the House,
but if you look through their curriculum vite, you know, they're members of ASME, which is to say that they were
government employees. You know, that doesn't mean that you're a labor organizer. Of course, there are a few, a
small number that are actually labor organizers, but the others were quote unquote just members of uh a labor union
of the government labor union or uh other unions. Uh and you know, this is
put forth in propaganda rags like the Guardian as some kind of you know, vast
left uh you know, sweep that is uh that we can anticipate. No, that's not going
to happen. What is clear is that the ruling class hates Trump. The ruling imperial
uh class hates Trump because he is the breian candidate. He does not have the
decorum that the usual uh president has as far as managing and controlling the
indoctrination and the propaganda. He says what's on his mind. He says the quiet part out loud. He reveals the
intentions of the ruling class in a naked way, which is why they hate him
and which is why they're going to impeach him the moment the um uh
midterms are over and you know it looks very likely that Trump is going to lose
bar you know uh extraordinary circumstances uh then the Democrats are going to try
and impeach him not because they care about uh preventing war or prevent or
improving the conditions of the working classes, but because they simply cannot
stand his, you know, Brexian persona. And so that is certainly in the works.
And because of this kind of Tweedled D, Tweedled Dumb Punch and Judy show,
people forget that Punch and Judy are actually controlled by the same puppeteer, which is, you know, the
ruling imperial deep state, you know, has uh both uh hands up, both of these
uh the crotches of both of these uh quote unquote parties. So,
um I think I think that's important to understand. uh and then uh you know will
it take on an anti-war position? No. I mean you can see that these war these
wars are a continued process uh that have started with Democrats and are
continued and of course yes uh Americans don't want war. the vast not uh majority
of the American population does not want war and each time they vote for an anti-
anti-war candidate because that's who they think they're voting for and they end up with as been said famously they
end up with John McCain again. So yes, it's going to be the same cycle again
and again. So uh you know the structural contradictions uh I think are what is
going to make a difference. the electoral politics uh are surface phenomena.
South Korea: A Vassal State's Struggle
Uh let me pivot to South Korea from directly from uh Greenland because uh
it's important to emphasize that not many have have picked up what's going on
between South Korea and the United States. Um but but there is also
striking uh resemblance in terms of US strategy uh with Greenland because uh uh
the US wants to force investments from South Korea. uh he wants to extract
capital from South Korea which is tune of $350 billion US
uh which is just impossible without Federal Reserve giving like enormous swap lines which it it would never give
and uh uh it wants to do that by transferring some of the most important
critical technology like it wants South Korea to transfer semiconductor industry
to the United States. It wants South Korea to buy oil from the United States,
giving up every other means. It also wants South Korean industries to limit
its exposure to U to excuse me, Chinese technology
and of course pay more for the troops that uh South Korea supplies to the US
empire. And the interesting thing is uh uh president uh lie Jong uh Liyang uh
is kind of pushing back against it if not entirely. So I wanted to ask you uh
to break down what is president doing there and what is it doing to US South
Korea relationship. Yeah, I mean you know just to go over
some of the basics um South Korea is a US paracolony. It was invented created
in to again by politicide or genocide by the United States as a bullwalk against
uh socialist movements in uh East Asia uh and as a bullwalk against China. So
Korea was a Japanese colony for almost half a century and then when it was
quote unquote liberated the US carved off half of it in the south as a kind of
rump vassal capitalist state and then became the successor colonizer. So the
US is the successor colonizer to the Japanese. And so in that context, South
Korea doesn't really have meaningful sovereignty. Uh, the most blatant and
stark example of its lack of sovereignty is the fact that the United States
controls South Korea's military to this day. It's unheard of for a sovereign
country to have its military controlled by a foreign power. But that is the de
facto state of affairs for South Korea. Now the Americans will say oh you know we just have wartime operational control
which is uh a pleonazm operations means
uh warfighting control. So we have wartime warf fighting control. That's a pleonazm that's a tology. The only time
control of a military matters is when you are fighting war. And the US not only has control over South Korean
military during war, but it gets to decide when a war has occurred. They get
to decide when they take over South Korea's military. So I I just want to
The History of South Korean Proxy Wars
you know un you know put that into the framing. Now as a US paracol colony the
other function that South Korea has served as is it served as uh uh a vast
uh proxy military for US wars. Uh South Korea has participated in almost every
major US war uh that uh uh that you know
the US has engaged in. So for example, it was in Iraq, it was in Afghanistan.
It was in Afghanistan by mid December of 2001. Uh it had the third largest
deployment to Iraq and it was in Vietnam. It was the second largest
deployment to the Vietnam War. In fact, more South Korean males adults served in
the Vietnam War than Americans served in the Vietnam War. 325,000
uh South Koreans were uh you know were deployed to the Vietnam War uh and as a
percentage of population in you know in combat that was a larger percentage than
the Americans themselves. Nobody tells you this. Nobody knows about this. Nobody talks about this. But every
Korean president uh since uh essentially since the beginning has been pulled into
American wars. So Singman Ree was pulled into the American proxy war uh in uh on
the Korean pins since the Korean war itself. Paken he sent 325,000 troops to Vietnam. After that, that was
President Chunduan. Chonduan was actually a combatant in Vietnam. And
then he initiated a US greenlighted coup using the same troops that he uh used to
massacre uh civilians in Vietnam. And then the president after that was not
also in Vietnam. He sent Korean troops to the Gulf War. And then after that
there was Kimong. Kimong Sam in 1993 was the first uh Korean civilian president.
So Korea didn't really have elections or even civilian governments until 1993.
Uh you know so anybody who tells you that Southview was some kind of marvel of democracy you know doesn't know
anything about the history. But Kimyong Sam sent troops to Somalia, Korean
troops to Somalia. And then Kim De Jung uh uh was again another progressive
president. He was forced to send troops to Afghanistan in operation enduring
freedom. And then after that there was Nuhan again important progressive and he
had to send troops to Somalia and uh uh sorry he he sent to he he continued
troops in Afghanistan and sent troops to Iraq and he said you know uh in his
memoirs he said one day there will come a time when it will be possible and
normal to say no to deploying troops to criminal US wars. But during his time it
was not possible. And then the president after that Ibach sent troops to Somalia
uh in operation enduring freedom and he created also uh a dispatch of special
warfare forces to the United Arab Emirates. So to this moment, right now
in this current moment, there is a company-sized detachment of special
warfare forces in the United Arab Emirates. Uh and they're training them
in, you know, special special forces warfare. And then after that, Pak
continued troops to Afghanistan. And then Munjayin, another progressive president said he campaigned. His
campaign was uh a country that can say no. meaning a country that can say no to the United States, but he couldn't say
no to the THAAD or to the US escalation in the pivot. And now EJ for the first
time in Korean history has come out and said,
"No, we will not deploy troops to uh
Iran." And this has, you know, you know, it's it's I think it's a historic
statement because it's the first time a South Korean president has actually said no. Can he sustain this position? We'll
see because they are not out of the woods yet. I you can expect that there will be further pressure on uh EJong to
send troops. Uh as I said, South Korea's always served as the military janitor
for US uh quagmires uh and there will be continued pressure.
The US essentially considers South Korea's troops as an appendage of US
troops that they US's proxy forces, US cannon fodder to be used at will. uh and
the fact that the US doesn't have a conscription is counterbalanced by the
fact that South Korea has one of the longest and most uh brutal conscriptions
in the world. So in some sense South Koreans, you know, it's the South Korean
conscription that allows the US to avoid a conscription. But
um EJong uh you know is walking a very very tight
uh very narrow tight rope. He's walking a minefield uh before he made this uh uh
announcement. He was visited by the uh by the US ambassador to to Seoul uh
Michelle uh Michelle Steel and she was appointed we think the vast consensus is
that she was appointed to that position to facilitate a coup against him. So
EJong is not out of the woods. he could be couped uh just as you know the
president before Yunagal attempted an auto coup and tried to turn the country
back into a military dictatorship so that US could escalate against China and he could hand over troops to US command.
Uh that was pushed back fiercely by Koreans fighting in the streets. you know, millions came out, you know, in
the cold of winter to fight, you know, the military and this uh extreme
farright right-wing counterreaction that would have taken it back into military dictatorship. Uh but Korea is not out of
the woods yet. And so Yamyang has made a powerful statement rebuffing the United
States, but don't expect this to be the end of the story. The pressure will continue. As I pointed out, the US has
South Korea in a difficult position regarding trade and tariffs. Uh, and it
is press ganging and it is twisting Korea's arm to invest $350 billion
in the United States to build up the US uh industrial base. $350 billion is not
a triv trivial amount of information amount of uh money. It's actually South
Korea's entire foreign exchange reserve and Trump has uh you know arm twisted
South Korea into saying you know you you can take all our money you you can empty our pockets you can take the change
behind you know the sofa you know it's all yours uh in exchange for you know
temporary uh you know uh conditions on tariffs. So it's it once again that
extraordinary unequal uh set of agreements shows how vasalized South
Korea is. But it's two things. The US wants to use South Korea as a proxy military as it did during Vietnam war
and successive wars. And then the other thing is that as we discussed earlier,
US has de-industrialized. Financialized monopoly capitalism uh
cannot build industry. It's not profitable. It's much easier just to gouge uh Rontier profits. Uh but they
still need uh industrial capacity if they want to wage an industrial war against Russia, against Iran, against
China. And so they're turning South Korea into the quartermaster
for US wars. And what that means is uh taking Korean industrial capacity which
is impressive and vast along with Japanese industrial capacity along with
some uh Indian projects as well and seeing if they can make uh a kind of
enclosed industrial system uh that uh can uh be the quartermaster that can be
the defense industrial base for the United States. So we're talking about companies like Hyundai which already has
a long history of being a subcontractor for US military corporations most
notably Brown and Root and Hallebertton. Uh and then Hanoa which is the new
Korean uh uh Loheed Martin. uh and this is going to you know uh build out US
military-industrial base for the United States on US soil in particular in terms
of ship building. All of this is part of the plan. And of course, the main idea
is to exclude China uh and to create a independent
uh economic uh and industrial structure uh that uh banishes and shuns China like
the Biden administration tried to do with the Trans-Pacific Partnership. They're still working on that. So once
again, all of this boils down back to the fact that the US is seeking war with
China. It seeks to maintain its hegemony and it understands the easiest way to do
that is to deputize and to appropriate its vassels into doing some of its
fighting and most certainly most of its industrial production.
I'm curious to hear your thoughts about the uh divisions within the Korean
elites uh regarding its future with the United States. I mean the divisions
being uh on one side would be those who would not necessarily be uh
anti-American but would say that we have a future with not just China but uh in
East Asian economy free trade technology cooperation
etc etc we don't necessarily have to be waring with China we have a different
path uh those who would uh not uh be
sucked into uh imperial Japanese project and question bring up the history and
would be detached from the uh uh uh aggressive Japanese Japan centered
US- centered imperial machine those who would not participate in those loudspeaker games and propaganda against
the DPRK and still believe in a unified u Korea uh etc. etc. So uh and and then
you can also add the internal dynamics about consider conceding more to labor
uh you know progressive tax policies doing something about the massive inequality
that Samsung and Hens are generating etc etc and then there will be the
reactionary forces on the other side. Um, of course, uh, uh, President Eyang
came at a specific circumstance of the martial law. Uh, but how do you define
the sort of actual existing class forces or these balance of uh, power between
these two segments within Korea in so far as its future uh, is concerned?
Class War and the Korean Identity
Yeah, I think you put your, you know, uh, finger, uh, right on it. Um, Korean politics is
essentially class war. Uh, and anybody who's watched a K drama or watched a K
film should understand that everything that undergurs Korean uh, culture and
art is really uh, informed by class war. So that class dimension is very clear
and that class dimension also then breaks down into pro-imperialist and
anti-imperialist uh uh essentially it's it's the same uh
uh division but the pro-imperialist are the pro-Japanese collaborators who then
became the pro-american collaborators and then you have the anti-imperialist
uh resistance uh that are also strongly aligned with North Korea because North Korea is, you know, the living
embodiment of anti-imperialist uh resistance. Uh and uh these and South
Korea was created by the United States by literally wiping out all the
progressives in South Korea. There literally it was a genocide on the scale
of Indonesia. Nobody talks about this. Nobody wants to acknowledge this. Nobody wants to mention this, but essentially
uh the all the pro progressives and their families and their children uh and
their women were simply uh lined up and shot and murdered in mass graves. And
the ones that survived, you know, endured uh months and years of bombing.
You know, there was, you know, Korea was turned into a wasteland uh you know, on
par with Palestine. uh on par with ga Gaza but on a scale 900 times larger. So
um class war I is uh uh is is at the
heart of this uh political uh crisis uh
in South Korea and you know for many decades Koreans put up with military dictatorships with the kind of tacet
proviso that eventually we'll put up with all this exploitation and violence but eventually uh it will raise our uh
standard of living. Well, in, you know, 1997, that promise turned out to be uh
completely uh bogus. Uh and even the managerial middle class realized that
they were expendable uh tools in this uh globalized imperial uh colonial project.
uh you know thousands of tens of thousands of South Koreans who thought they had lifetime employment with
Samsung or Hyundai uh realized that they were just expendable uh [clears throat]
uh labor and uh during that period we have what is called the IMF suicide
which is uh thousands of people committed uh suicide after you know
losing uh work uh In Korea, the IMF uh is considered to be uh you know an
acronym for I'm effed. Uh and this was literally what happened. you know, uh,
um, wealthy middle class, uh, Koreans, uh, you know, would pick up their
children from school or from piano lessons and take them home, give them a
bag with, uh, you know, some toys and a teddy bear, drop them off at an
orphanage, and then, you know, both parents would go home and commit
suicide. So we have this entire phenomenon during that period of what we
call IMF orphans uh middle class people who thought they were middle class who committed suicide
after being reamed uh by the global uh capitalist system. Uh so that class war
and the class dimensions of Korean society have uh never ended and of
course people understand this uh as related to the conditions of imperial
subjugation. There was a period in the early 1980s, late '7s, 1980s where
Koreans were fighting against the military dictatorships and they were fighting uh for quote unquote democracy.
And there were two factions that appeared during this period. One is called PD, the people's
democracy, and they were all about, you know, fighting for democracy and human rights. Uh and then uh there was another
group that was called the NL or national liberation group and they understood
uh that without uh liberation without sovereignty uh from imperial control uh
you have no chance at democracy. that there is a critical path and a sequencing and you have to rest back
sovereignty first and you have to fight imperialism before you even have uh the
you know minimal chance at establishing a people's democracy. Uh but uh people
were misled. You know, they put in a series of liberal democratic
uh governments and all of these uh had very very little control over their
country, over their economy and most certainly uh almost no policy which is why they were constantly
involved in foreign deployments. Uh so this was also going on in Taiwan. I just
wanted to add not just Korea similar. Abs. Absolutely. Yes. Uh and so EJong
is, you know, kind of an interesting uh [clears throat] president uh in this lineage uh in this
succession of Korean presidents because uh many of the progressive uh Korean
presidents came out of the PD or the NL line. They're what we call the 386 generations. people who came who were in
their 30s uh in uh who were born in the 60s and uh were in their 30s and in the
1980s and these were the progressives or the radicals and some of them were genuinely anti-imperial. [clears throat]
I mean some of the people in the Korean legislature right now you know overtook
the you know as students. So there is a genuine uh radical uh line inside uh the
Korean body politic and also they have been strongly
strongly constrained. The previous president Munjin was one of this 386 uh
generation went to prison for uh you know uh challenging the government. Uh
and yet when he was put into power, when he, you know, became the president in
2017, he he was hopeless and helpless. He couldn't deescalate with North Korea.
Uh he was helpless to refuse the deployment of THAD missiles even though
he said no. The Korean military just brought them on his soil uh because they
said they, you know, were responding to the American military. That's whom they take their orders from, not from their
commander, their own commander-in-chief. EJ Mong does not come from the 386
generation uh of resistors. He actually comes from a workingclass background. He
was a child laborer. uh from the age of 12 he worked in a in a plastic factory
and then a baseball factory and essentially a series of workshops and
sweat shops and factories. And he also had a major accident in one of
those factories. His arm was mangled twice. And you have to understand that you know the
conditions of labor uh in Korea at that time were you know horrendous. They were
like essentially concentration camps. He said he would go every day he would go to work and be beaten [clears throat]
within inches of his life. So, you know, he's working like an animal and he's
beaten every time he slows down or makes a mistake. Uh and so he, you know, kind
of embodies uh extraordinary uh accomplishment to come from that uh
status as a child laborer where essentially, you know, you've been sold into indentured slavery at the age of
12. and to go from that to, you know, passing the middle school and the high
school equivalence exam on your own time. Uh, and then to get a scholarship
to law school and then to become a human rights lawyer and then to become the governor and then to become the
president is that's just a kind of extraordinary uh, you know, human trajectory. And so
clearly there is some you know spine [clears throat] and fire in his makeup
and I think that may be one of the reasons why he came out strongly uh
refusing the US request. All the bets were on that he would simply have to
acquies and they had sent a factf finding team to Iran and to the UAE.
It's kind of understood that it was a done deal or that at the very least they would, you know, put some kind of
technical veneer and say that this was a non-military deployment, but essentially a military
deployment pretending to be non-military. We still don't know if that's the case. Uh right now he said
that they're just going to do, you know, support quote unquote, you know, transit and freedom of navigation, uh, etc.
using existing assets. But that's always the thin edge of the wedge. You know, there's always mission creep, which is a
real possibility. Uh but at least verbally and in public, he has come out
strongly against uh the deployment of South Korean troops to Iran. And that
makes sense for many reasons. First, there's been massive resistance on the
Korean street against any deployment. And this has been happening for months,
actually over a year since the war uh started. The Koreans have been uh afraid
that they would be pulled into this war as they were as they were pulled into the Vietnam War. Uh and you know the you
know there have been speeches essentially saying that we refuse to become your bullet receptacles. We
refuse to become your cannon foder. uh we are not going to become complicit in
US war crimes in a criminal illegal war of aggression. This is the talk uh the
these are the chants on the streets of Korean protesters. So it's it's very close and as I said more Korean more
Korean males served uh in Vietnam than actually than Americans served in
Vietnam in combat positions. So it's it's very it's very uh real and very
present for cranes. Everybody you know remembers the Vietnam war.
Uh and so Eyeong uh has you know popular backing
to say no. Uh the other aspect is that I believe that uh Yemen's success uh
[clears throat] uh in in the Red Sea uh and the Babel Mandeb against Saudi
Arabia and Iran's military successes, strategic su successes against uh the
United States uh have have been the cause for the United States trying to
you know press gang South Korea to join. But they've also shown the US weakness
that it essentially is a paper tiger. Uh and I think that has given a little bit
of breathing space for uh for the Koreans. Essentially, you know, if it's
a winning war, everybody piles on. But if it's a losing war uh and the US doesn't have the power that it purports
to have, then uh that gives you a little bit of maneuvering space. The third
aspect of this is that EJong actually has made it one of his core platforms to
rest back South Korean military operational control from the US. He's
doing everything and he wants it back before his term is over. The US has
essentially said no. They've passed legislation saying no. The commander of the US forces Korea has said no. Uh
essentially they're saying over my dead body. But EJang you know is I think uh
firm to his uh you know agenda. Uh and by standing up in this fashion
[clears throat] he may be calculating that this could not slow down but actually accelerate
uh US uh [clears throat] US uh
US departure from uh from Korea uh because of Trump's statements. prior
statements regarding the presence of Korean troops, uh, US troops in Korea.
All of this is very complicated. Don't want to get too too far into the weeds, but essentially EJong wants to get OPON
back. The US does not want to give OPCON back. Uh, the deep state certainly wants to hold on to South Korean opcon. Uh,
but there may be an opportunity. It's either horse trading or it's a kind of
heightening of the contradictions uh that could happen that could accelerate. It's a it's uh it's a big gamble, but
we'll see if that can happen. And then the last piece, and not to not to ignore
any of this, is South Korea for a very very long time has had uh good relations
with Iran. People don't understand it, but most of the major port structure in
Iran, which the US has been bombing, was actually built by South Korea. This was
Hyundai and South Korean corporations. If you go to the richest part of the
capital city, Soul uh called Kangnam, that Kangnam district, the richest and
the most uh important street in Kangnam is actually Tehran road. It is named
after Thran because it was built on wealth uh you know created by Korean uh
investments in the reconstruction of Iran and they also Koreans also have
massive construction projects all around the Gulf States in particular in Saudi
Arabia and Iran sent the message in no uncertain terms if you get involved in
the US war against us, US aggression against us, then all of your assets in
the Gulf cooperation states are going to be obliterated. And I think that really
sent uh a message that Koreans listen to. They're highly highly invested
invested. Uh these are ports, but also infrastructures,
uh you know, refineries, uh as well as uh data centers. All of
these things could be at risk. So for many pragmatic reasons not simply a
moral or ethical or stand of sovereignty I think Korea took the better uh you
know it uh you know chose the better part of valor which is discretion and
asserted it sovereignty said no but as I said it's game is not over and one of
the things that could happen is EJ could get much much more pressure
uh and up to and including a coup which we already see uh some of the uh the
preparations have already uh been in place and there's a vast US allied
reactionary rightwing that is that could uh hit the streets again uh to undermine
his presidency. I I want to end uh with with a final
question on West Asia, but just to uh do service to this segment very quickly, if
you can answer one final question on Korea and that is about
North South relationship. Uh there are some media reports about uh Trump's
scheduled visit or planned visit to China in November as part of the
Asia-Pacific uh economic cooperation. And uh we saw in his first term the
opening of those talks which uh did make some people hopeful although it ended up
nowhere. Uh situation has changed. Many say that North Korea is in a much
stronger position today because of its closer relationship with Russia. Um and
also it has more clarity in terms of uh uh its
necessity of its nuclear program to defend itself and uh the necessity of
placing concessions before any talks on the nuclear programs etc etc given what
has happened with Iran and given the repeated betrayal uh uh in during the
talks between the US and Iran. Um but my my question to you is uh
where does the relationship between the north and south stand at this moment? Is
is it somewhere around 2006 when the relationship started to improve? Has it
gone back? and what is the future uh of that project of integration which uh in
my judgment is a sort of historic fact that will happen but we don't know how it will happen and when.
The North-South Integration Dilemma
Yeah, I think you make a very good point. I mean Korea has been unified for
[clears throat] at least a millennia. I would argue longer. Um and uh this
breach and this separation was artificially created by the United States to create a vassal uh state uh to
the United States as a bullwalk against indigenous movements towards socialism
and communism. Uh inside that context the vast [clears throat] majority of
Koreans are still related to people in North Korea. people in the south um you
know one-third of the people in the south have relatives in the north I myself have you know family in the north
so I think that deep down inside Koreans want to be reunified certainly
and a succession of progressive presidents have always wanted uh reprosh
and movements towards some kind of reunification perhaps through a confederation
Um uh EJong has just recently passed uh legislation saying for example that
South Koreans will not be prosecuted for having contact with North Koreans. Uh
previous to this any South Korean if you were traveling abroad and you had any contact with a North Korean like you
went to a North Korean restaurant uh you know as they exist you know in other countries you could be prosecuted the
moment you returned to South Korea. So EJong has passed uh has proposed
legislation uh that would decriminalize that. So you can see that he's doing a
lot of work and making a lot of overtures to North Korea to see if he
can deescalate uh hostility with the ultimate goal of
you know moving towards peace and perhaps uh some kind of confederated uh
reunion. that is uh is again you know a very longhaul project and in the
meantime the main obstacle to uh South Korean and North Korean unity and uh
deescalation is the United States. uh US has to have hostility in that region
because that justifies uh its military presence which then justifies its
forward uh force projection capacities not against uh North Korea but against
China. North Korea is simply a stalking horse or a pretext for uh this vast
presence and uh escalating escalation to war against China. So, US doesn't want
any of that deescalation. Koreans have wanted for example to bring build a
north south railway corridor. That would be incredible. It would make South Korea
the uh northeastern terminus of the belt and road. But the US has said, you know,
that is not possible. any deescalation is managed and controlled by the United
States and is actually forbidden because the US wants that uh continued uh
escalation that continued tension and it doesn't uh and South Korea really doesn't have uh a lot of uh sovereignty
in its foreign affairs most certainly with North Korea on the on the side of North Korea. North
Korea, you know, is, you know, once bitten, twice shy, twice bitten, you know, shy, right? Uh, and, uh,
essentially it has given up on ideas of reunification as far as we can tell from
its public statements. Essentially considers uh, South Korea to be a lost
cause, no longer uh, you know, a family or uh, brothers and sisters that we can
reunite with. uh and it has broken off uh any attempts to uh deescalate. It
hasn't closed the door completely. They've said good things about Trump, but essentially they're reading the
cards and they're saying, you know, this is a lost cause. And so their approach
has been to shut down all communication to literally to blow up all the roads or
to blockade them that could potentially serve as uh you know passageways between
north and south uh and to uh and to you know to steal themselves for
confrontation. And this includes of course uh militarizing themselves as
well as developing their economy. And Russia did something which was quite striking. You know recently they renewed
their mutual defense treaty. Uh North Korea has mutual defense treaties with
China and with Russia. Those are the only two countries that it has mutual defense treaties. uh and and from
China's perspective, North Korea is the only country that has uh with which it
has a mutual defense treaty, but it ties the three of them together. So uh so
this is kind of the core of the multipolar uh resistance and North Korea
uh Russia, China along with Iran. Uh the the thing to understand is North
Korea has always been it has always punched above its weight. Uh and despite
being absolutely devastated during the Korean War about somewhere between one
one out of five to one out of three North Koreans were killed uh in the Korean War. It's a it's a level of you
know devastation that is unheard of you know in the annals of war. Uh but they
still rebuilt their country and until 1979 they were wealthier than South
Korea until the Soviet Union fell and then all kinds of uh ripple effects
happened. But North Korea's always been a defender of socialism and of national
liberation which is why for example uh North Korea helped uh Iran in its tunnel
strategy. It's also helped uh Yemen uh in its military strategy as well as
arms. Uh it has uh been a stalwart uh supporter of Palestine and you know
during the PLO it you know sent arms and trainers uh to support armed resistance.
So North Korea has been this kind of uh model of anti-imperialist
uh resistance. the most forceful anti-imperialist resistance and because of that and because of its uh uh you
know capacity to resist US has always wanted to obliterated.
North Korea's always uh sought to deescalate uh with uh South Korea. It
has sued for peace uh since the end of the Korean War since 1953.
The US has always rejected uh in treaties for peace and it has always
betrayed and deceived it on every agreement that it signed including the
uh six party uh you know six party talks and the greed framework which were
essentially collapses doctrines. They essentially were pretending to engage with North Korea, deescalate with North
Korea, made promises that they had no intention of keeping while continuing to
besiege it and trying to make it uh collapse from, you know, these
extraordinary sanctions. Uh recently, Russia uh disabled the sanctions at the
UNCC. a disabled monitoring committee and so what that has allowed is again
it's given North Korea some breathing space and it's allowed it to come back to its own self which is it was a highly
productive developmental uh socialist state and it was kind of a model of what
you can do with socialism uh if you put your mind to it and of course that
counter example should not in the minds of the western elite should not be allowed to exist which is why they spent
so much energy and effort into trying to strangle it in the crib. Uh but North
Korea has resisted. It survived and it's uh reasscending towards its previous uh
status as both a powerful ally of the global south and of national liberation
movements and a powerful development state uh in its own right with
tremendous uh technological capacity. So all of this is just more signals of uh
the way in which the global south is is um rising up again along you know with
Yemen with Iran with West Asia with all the developments that happening in China
and Southeast Asia as well. Uh and ultimately it's a signal that
the the empire despite its best efforts has not been able to snuff out uh
despite you know its most violent efforts has not been able to snuff out socialism uh in the global south. uh the
the strength and the fact of North Korea's still uh uh existing and
thriving is proof that uh socialism you know uh is a viable uh method of uh
political economy uh and that nothing can uh you know nothing can uh uh obiate
that fact. You have been KJ so generous with your
time and I don't want to hold you any longer. Uh but if I could just take last two or three minutes to end this
conversation by asking one final question probably
I I'll I'll hinge that on um Yemen but the question of course is on on on on
Yemen, Iran, and the Imperial Reckoning
the larger context of the US war on Iran and what is going on is in West Asia. So
I just realized during the conversation that we've been discussing Greenland and Korea and so Yemen maybe like the
connecting theme is apparently small places where big events are happening and so Yemen is the other
center along with Iran where um massive developments are taking place. One of
the things that is surprising for many who've been following the civil war in
uh or the dirty war in Iran is how passive Saudi Arabia has been this time.
And many are saying that this reflects the American weakness, the weakness of
the American military industrial complex. They are running out of munitions. They're running out of methods to intercept uh missiles coming
from all directions. And that's what explains why Saudi Arabia is so um seems
to be so defensive at this moment and answer Allah uh whose uh actions with
regards to Palestine has been lauded uh but it has been gaining grounds in terms
of uh its uh footholds in um along the west coast of Saudi Arabian Peninsula.
Uh so my my question to you uh KJ is
what does uh the actions of these apparently smaller countries Iran and
Yemen u in in in in pushing back or in
resisting the US empire in exposing the fragility of the US empire? What does it
reflect about imperialism and in general fight for national liberation?
Well, what we're looking at is um [clears throat] in the postw World War II era, national
liberation movements arose as uh a process a global process of
decolonization. But that colonization
was continued through other means through proxy governments through
dictatorships to compradors and through neoliberal control over the economic
system. Um what we're seeing in this current moment is uh uh perhaps or
hopefully a completion of the national liberation movements that were started
in the postw World War II era. And so if you understand the conflicts not as
civil wars but literally as uh the struggle for countries to decolonize and
to kick out the imperialists, I think you will have a much clearer lens to understand what is going on. So for
example, you know, Yemen to a large extent was a proxy of Saudi Arabia and
UAE was colonized and they these Gulf Arab states were you know absolute
monarchies that themselves were subjugated as some you know imperial subcontractors to US hegemony and in
particular because of their utility in controlling uh the flow of hydrocarbons
which ties to the US uh exorbitant privilege of the reserve currency which
undergurs US uh global power when the US is no longer able to uh support its uh
uh Gulf satropies uh where it's no longer able to maintain the flow of
hydrocarbons in that region when it's when its satropies no longer have cash
with which to recycle their money into petro dollars.
Then you can see that the entire imperial system is foundering. Those cracks are now looking you know very
very critical. And so inside that uh context the fact that Yemen is able not
only to fight but to defeat one of the richest and most powerful militaries in
the region that is Saudi Arabia's you know I mean it what's the budget? I mean it's extraordinary budget and they're
able to beat their mercenaries because that's what they were. Uh shows that you
know that resolve matters in war. uh uh you can you know empires always use
mercenaries but these mercenaries are always only useful uh when the empire is
powerful and as the empire is on the way the mercenaries uh you know are shown to
be uh you know very uh weak and and incapable of fighting and the fact that
there's a sequencing issue involved right because Yemen uh uh Yemen's uh
control of the Babel Mandabad happened after Iran's control of the uh Hormuz. I
mean, we can I think it's fair to say that Iran has effective and near total
control over the straight of hormones. And so, you have the two arteries, the
two carroted arteries of the global hydrocarbon system that have just been
shut off. That creates tremendous pressure. It creates tremendous pressure
on the illegitimate Gulf monarchies that have no popular base, no popular
support. They exist only by being puppets and proxies for US imperialism.
That has put tremendous pressure on them. There's weakened them uh possibly in fatal ways.
Uh and and so once again, you know, the world has, depending on how you count
it, 10 core choke points, right? The uh Suez Canal, the Babel Mandeb, straight
of Hormuz, uh straight of Gibrala, uh South China Sea, uh Mala Straits,
etc. There about how you count them, seven or 10 key, uh choke points. and
the fact that the two most important choke points are now controlled by uh by
those who are rising resisting the empire puts further pressure on the
imperial corps and they need to come to a reckoning that they need to give up
their conceptions their conceits of total hegemony and they need to move towards
uh finding a modus vivventi with the uh with the rest of the world with the
global south in a in an equal multilateral system. Uh if they don't do
that then things will simply get worse. They could face massive uh dissent uh
conflict uh um perhaps even revolution in their own countries. As I said, you
know, the dispossessed, temporarily embarrassed Labor aristocrats, uh, need that continual tribute from the
global south. If they don't have that, then they, the discontented masses, uh,
you know, will rise up against their own leaders and then their own leaders have to make the choice, you know, how they
going to manage. This is going to be tamped down with further militaristic fascism turning the brutal violence they
meed out in their colonies against their own which they have from time to time but in a much more total fashion. Is
that what is going to happen? uh or are they going to come to some modus divided endi or are they going to double down on
the bets that is to say escalate to war against China by using more proxies uh
and by resorting to nuclear weapons and that also is definitely part of the
agenda. read what Elbridge KBY has been saying since 2015. And he's essentially
said that we need to use nukes like they are candies essentially. Uh if we're
losing, if we need it, if we feel like it, we should be using nukes. And so I
believe that there at the highest levels of uh discourse, there are plans to use nukes against Iran and against China, as
they say it, to quote unquote to thin out Chinese troops as if it were, you
know, just like, you know, mowing the lawn or something. So, uh,
we're we're in a moment of great possibility and opportunity and we're in
a moment also of great crisis. So uh I think that we need to see the big picture. We need to understand the ways
in which we're still in crisis. We're not uh the game is not over. Uh there are still many uh twists and turns that
are potentially happening. Uh what's happening in distant places in small countries in small wars. All of these
are part of the global picture. uh and
we in the imperial uh north in the imperial corps have to do our own part
to prevent escalation further escalation to war
further escalation towards nuclear war uh escalation
for example using AI that we didn't discuss that but AI is definitely part of the picture the US wants to enclose
AI as a weapon against the global south against workers
and against China and against its enemies. China wants to release AI as a
public utility, as a public good to the world. And so we're seeing you know this contestation of two world views around
technology itself uh that uh are coming to the front and the US you know is
using this doomer gloomer and uh white supremacist
uh language to you know to see if it can indoctrinate its population into going
along with it. But all of these are part of a global uh shift that we are seeing
tectonic shifts happening right now in this historic moment. Uh and I think
it's important that people understand what's going on. They understand that uh
you have to have be clear-headed and you have to in certainly in the global core
you have to make powerful efforts uh individually and collectively to prevent
this escalation uh from going any further. Absolutely. And uh there can't be any
better moment to end this conversation than these final words. Uh KJ, thank you so much for your time and your answers
are so clarifying and helpful. Uh appreciate it and uh have a wonderful rest of the day ahead.
Thank you. Pleasure to be with you. Hi, my name is Aish Man. I along with
Jotis man have started this platform. The last two years we have tried to
build content for the left and progressive forces. We have interviewed economists, historians, political
commentators and activists so far. If you have liked our content so far and
want us to build an archive for the left, I have two requests for you.
Please do consider donating for the cause. Link is in the description below.
Also, if you are not able to do so, don't feel sad. You can always like our
videos and share our videos to your comrades. Finally, don't forget to hit
the subscribe button.
