Korea Crisis: Deep causes of the real crisis of Korea and US power

What is the crisis in South Korea? What is the Korean perspective on the crisis and how does it differ from international reactions?

What are its causes - in Korean history, society, and its international relations, especially with its close ally the USA?

When South Korea declared martial law on 3 December many people in Korea were dismayed and many outside observers around the world were surprised.

But KJ Noh predicted that martial law was coming - 12 hours before the declaration.

KJ Noh joined me for an insightful discussion of the Korea crisis, its causes, the history of Korea since 1945, and how the crisis might unfold as the USA’s grip on world leadership weakens.

I am bringing this special interview as a video to my Substack readers outside my normal publishing schedule because of the importance and urgency of many of the issues KJ Noh discusses. You can view it at the Burning Archive YouTube channel.

Thanks for reading Burning Archive! This post is public so feel free to share it.

KJ Noh appears on the China Report at Breakthrough News YouTube channel (The China Report)

KJ Noh “South Korea's Martial Law fiasco: Continuing Legitimation Crisis in the Imperial Vassal State” Korea Policy Institute/ Counterpunch https://www.kpolicy.org/post/south-ko...

KJ Noh, “The Semiotics of Face slashing” Counterpunch - a quick rundown on Korean history and culture in three acts https://www.counterpunch.org/2015/03/...

KJ Noh’s prediction of coming martial law declaration appeared in this video (approx 1:20:00) What Does the Trump Presidency Mean f...

KJ Noh, US-backed Yoon Pledges to eliminate anti-state elements/Koreans rise up in resistance. Pearls & Irritations https://johnmenadue.com/martial-law-u...

In the interview KJ mentioned a young bar girl who addressed the crowd at an impeachment rally in Busan, and said "I marshalled all the courage I have to speak before you....I want to state that once we get past this crisis, we can't stop." The video is here: 부산 집회를 숙연하게 만든 화제의 3분 명연설 (자막있음) l 영상...

KJ also discussed the lyrics the SNSD/Girls Generation song "Into the new world". The lyrics in Korean and English are below.

특별한 기적을 기다리지마 Don't wait for any special miracle

눈 앞에선 우리의 거친 길은 A rough road ahead us waits

알 수 없는 미래와 벽 Only an unknown future and obstacles

바꾸지 않아, 포기할 수 없어 But we can't give up or exchange.

변치 않을 사랑으로 지켜줘 Just keep your unwavering love

상처 입은 내 맘까지 Even though your broken heart hurts

시선 속에서 말은 필요 없어 In our gaze, no words are necessary

멈춰져 버린 이 시간 In this moment of stopped time.

사랑해 널 이 느낌 이대로 Holding onto this feeling of loving you

그려왔던 헤매임의 끝 Is the end of our yearned-for wanderings:

이 세상 속에서 반복되는 슬픔 이젠 안녕 Farewell to the repetition of sorrows in this world.

Learn from history to live in tune with a changing world
