The real reason why Trump invited China’s President Xi to Washington

Dollar system in crisis: The real reason the US bailed out Japan

Major study shows world sees USA as biggest threat, and prefers China

Even American war hawks now admit Iran is defeating the US – and it will change the world

Trump’s failed China trip shows his trade war backfired, and US corporations are desperate

[fernando cerimedo scandal bolivia latin america right trump us]

Huge scandal exposes how USA uses criminals to manipulate elections in Latin America

[USA Israel meddle Colombia election Abelardo de la Espriella]

How USA & Israel put drug cartel-linked US citizen in power in Colombia

Costa Rica deepens alignment with US-backed right-wing forces, with victory of Laura Fernández

Donroe Doctrine: Trump attack on Venezuela is part of imperial plan to impose US hegemony in Latin America

Trump admits he wants to take Venezuela’s oil – and give it to US corporations

USA votes against entire world, opposing equal representation of Africa, as it pushes to revive colonialism

West refuses to condemn slavery in UN General Assembly vote

As Trump threatens BRICS, it grows stronger, resisting US dollar and Western imperialism

BRICS expands to 54.6% of world population by adding Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country

BRICS expands with new partner countries. Now it’s half of world population, 41% of global economy

The real reason why Trump invited China’s President Xi to Washington

US politicians are exploiting their own supporters with meme coin scams

USA votes against entire world, opposing equal representation of Africa, as it pushes to revive colonialism

[fernando cerimedo scandal bolivia latin america right trump us]

Huge scandal exposes how USA uses criminals to manipulate elections in Latin America

The truth behind Trump’s trade war with Canada: It will blow back

Dollar system in crisis: The real reason the US bailed out Japan

Americans are NOT wealthy: The truth about the US economy

How China prepared for the new global food crisis, caused by the US war on Iran

[Michael Hudson ponzi scheme US economy house of cards]

Is another financial crisis brewing in the US economy? Economist Michael Hudson explains the dangers

The war on Iran is transforming the global economy: Economist Michael Hudson explains how

Why some US elites want South Korea to be a ‘dictatorship for democracy’

A top former US State Department official, Morse Tan, claimed South Korea’s President Yoon Suk-yeol declared martial law and attempted a military coup in order to “preserve democracy”.

A joint military exercise between the US and South Korea in 2019 (Photo credit: US Army / public domain)

Morse Tan, a high-ranking former US State Department official, let the cat out of the bag on the US ruling elite position on South Korea’s martial law.

He declared that President Yoon Suk-yeol declared martial law to “preserve democracy”. At a rally in South Korea, Tan said:

President Yoon declared martial law, and it is to preserve your democracy, that this country was made, and exists, by you, and for you, that President Yoon stuck out his neck, in a heroic way, and stood up to awaken this country, to the realities of what are going on in this country.

Having previously labeled South Korea a model democracy, this is a No-Scotsman-move taken to absurdity.

Tan also openly threatened South Korea’s government against upholding Yoon’s impeachment. Writing for the global news agency UPI on March 18, he warned:

Removing Yoon may trigger Section 7008 punishments from the United States government, which can include the elimination of: Bilateral Economic Assistance (III), International Security Assistance (IV), Multilateral Assistance (V), and Export and Investment Assistance (VI).

The US applies Section 7008 when a country is deemed to have undergone a military coup, or a coup d’etat “where the military has played a significant role”. Under those circumstances, critical aid is withdrawn from the country. It is an extreme measure — the political equivalent of banishment and excommunication — exercised against a state.

If Tan’s threats are material, South Korea risks being grouped with Myanmar, Gabon, Niger, Burkina Faso, and Sudan — other countries currently under section 7008 listing. Notice the explicit use of the word “punishment”.

Now Tan is not a current US government official, but he is an indicator of what the US national security state is thinking, in particular, what its neoconservative wing is thinking. Tan also recently claimed that “the impeachment against Yoon is an insurrection” led by opposition party leader Lee Jae Myung, “who wants to turn the country over to the Chinese communists”.

As absurd and conspiratorial as these allegations sound, these are actually finely tuned and well-honed Washington-CPAC talking points about Chinese threats and interference in Korea, and they are echoed endlessly, if histrionically, by US flag-waving foot soldiers at South Korean protests and on YouTube.

These anti-China messages were also repeated in German State TV ARD’s documentary “Staatskrise im Schatten von China und Nordkorea” (State Crisis in the Shadow of China and North Korea), released to its German public television website on February 25. The documentary claimed that China had hacked South Korea’s legislative election to put the opposition DP party into power, which is now taking orders from North Korea and China to impeach Yoon.

There is clearly a highly convergent and disciplined campaign of anti-China propaganda around the impeachment. ARD removed its documentary, but the damage has clearly been done.

It’s impossible not to highlight the absurdity of Tan’s statement that “Yoon declared martial law (i.e. military dictatorship) to preserve democracy”. And, as a foreign national, Tan is breaking South Korean law by directly participating in domestic Korean politics. But the free rein he is given, and the lack of disavowal or reprimand from the State Department – if only for his own safety – is very revealing.

Tan’s position in the state department was “Ambassador at Large”. These are powerful, Viceroy-type postings: they represent US policy and US interests on a (grand) strategic level. Consider other Ambassadors-at-Large: Averell Harriman, Henry Cabot Lodge,  Paul Nitze, Paul Bremer III, StrobeTalbott,  Robert Gallucci. These are not individuals given to improvising and airing idiosyncratic personal opinions.

As a former state Viceroy, with the enduring prestige and power of state connections, the platforms that Tan has been given to expound his views signal that he is expressing the direction of official doctrine, reflected both in Tan’s public statements, state media talking points, and the coordinated erasure of counterviewpoints.

US policy on South Korea’s dictatorship/martial law is analogous to its policy on Taiwan: Strategic “ambiguity” in language, concrete support and escalation in actions.  The “ambiguity” serves to pretextually mask war preparations against China.

Of course, there is nothing ambiguous about the strategy, other than the desire for a fig leaf of plausible deniability.

What the US wants from Korea is that which is strategically most advantageous for the US: a right-wing Korean client regime to do the bidding of the US, to escalate and prepare for war with China.

This is a war that it has been envisioning since the early 2000s, and which was institutionalized by Obama’s “Pivot to Asia”.

In fact, the reason Yoon Suk Yeol was selected, elected, and lionized as South Korea’s president is because he was a walking neoconservative fulfillment list for this war.

As these war preparations accelerate and intensify, a South Korean military dictatorship with the US in control of the South Korean military is the easiest and most advantageous configuration to enact these plans. The US will settle for a client-plutocratic democratic state, but dictatorship has actually been the historical norm since South Korea was created by the US.

Given the tight timelines involved, it is also possible for this configuration to be instituted again: this project of war is urgent and time-bound: US natsec heavyweights have calendared 2025 and 2027 (“the Minihan” & “Davidson windows”) as the propitious date range to trigger war with China.

First, geographically and historically, Korea has always been the on ramp and bridgehead for invasion into China. War with China has always started from the Korean peninsula or Taiwan island, usually as interlinked pairs.

Second, South Korea has the world’s third-largest standing army — including reservists, 3.6 million troops — larger than the militaries of China and Russia combined. The US gets operational control over these troops immediately if there is war.  War with China is thus most compatible and convenient with a South Korean dictatorship.

There is very strong circumstantial evidence that the US knew beforehand about Yoon’s martial law declaration, due to the length and intricacy of the preparation and the aggressive military nature of the operation-which would have required coordination and communication with US forces in Korea.   At the very least, they would have been aware.  And regardless, they would have benefited, geostrategically.

Sworn testimony shows that Yoon’s gambit was to trigger war with North Korea (through drone attacks, missile attacks, shelling, false flag assassinations of opposition) to justify declaring martial law.  Only poor execution, North Korean forbearance, and rapid citizen mobilization prevented the seamless rollout of this military coup.

Evidence has come out that Yoon was preparing repeated coups. Historically, all military coups on the southern peninsula have been greenlighted by the US.

On that point, Morse Tan is the Nancy Pelosi of Korea: he functions like a Track II US envoy–cheerleading for a right-wing South Korean military coup, with just the slightest hint of plausible deniability.

Note the dead radio silence out of Washington throughout this whole process: silence during the Martial Law declaration, silence after the rejection of Martial Law, silence after the impeachment, and silence throughout.  Not a word of critique or condemnation. Note also the deafening hush of the mainstream corporate media.

Meanwhile, the fissures in South Korean society are approaching civil war.

There is already intergovernmental war: on March 22nd the CIO (Corruption Investigation Office, similar to the US Inspector General) raided the Prosecutor’s Office (similar to the Attorney General) for corruption, just days after the Prosecutor’s Office raided the CIO for evidence of warrant shopping on Yoon’s impeachment.

This would be like the Inspector General raiding the Attorney General after the Attorney General raided the Inspector General.

Yoon has been released from custody on a technicality (“counting hours, not days”) despite being indicted for insurrection.  His co-conspirators are still incarcerated, but the ringleader is free, highlighting the absurdity of the ruling.  The prosecutor’s office, ostensibly committed to prosecuting Yoon, did not even bother to file an appeal.

The prosecutor’s office is considered to be Yoon’s private army — Yoon was the former prosecutor general of Korea, and he promised to create a “Republic of Prosecutors”.  That much he has been successful on.

Han Duck Soo, the impeached South Korean Prime minister (and former acting president) has just had his impeachment reversed, and is now acting president again.

The constitutional court found that Han had violated the constitution (by refusing to appoint already approved justices to the Constitutional Court to rule on the impeachment issue) but they reinstated him anyway. Never mind the irony that the court could have lacked standing to try his case if he had been successful in disabling the court.

Han had also been tasked with appointing an independent counsel to investigate Yoon (to avoid the conflicts of interest that have appeared with the prosecutor’s office), but he had declined, leading to the current debacle of suspect loyalties and suspicious/delayed/tampered/sabotaged legal processes.

One Constitutional Court justice claimed that the current political chaos was directly related to Han’s malfeasance and non-cooperation in these matters and found for impeachment–but she was a tiny minority of one in the ruling.

The Constitutional Court’s ruling on Han Duck Soo was already problematic in that it was out of sequence. The fact that they ruled first before Yoon’s case, and ruled against impeachment is an ominous signal.

Two other high officials, Kim Seong-hun, and Lee Kwang-woo (of the presidential security service), indicted for impeding Yoon’s arrest, have recently also had their arrest warrants rejected.

These are powerful figures who are now at large, with huge axes to grind. The trends are not in favor of impartial justice or peaceful resolution.

The delayed impeachment ruling of Yoon itself is widely thought to be due to Washington’s pressure: it has been one month since the testimony was completed, but still there has been no ruling.  This is abnormally long for what is an open-and-shut case: there is no doubt that Yoon declared martial law (he is on television declaring it!), and there is no doubt that he used extra-constitutional means–military force–to implement it and to try to prevent its rescission.

But it’s widely considered that the ruling was delayed so that Lee Jae Myung’s appeal ruling on March 26 would be rendered before the constitutional court’s ruling on Yoon is made public. Now, the appellate court has currently exonerated Lee Jae Myung, but he is still facing a stack of four other charges.

This is because Lee Jae Myung, the opposition DP party chair, would be the leading candidate for president if the impeachment of Yoon triggers a snap election (in 60 days). He is currently 20+ points ahead of any other potential candidate by polling. The presidency would be his to take under normal circumstances.

However, if Lee is found guilty in any court of any of the charges levied against him, he would be stripped of all political rights for a decade, and the opposition DP would lose its strongest candidate.  Washington does not want Lee Jae Myung as president, because it’s understood that he would balance with China against the US, and de-escalate the coming war on China. Hence the delay and pressure.

Tan has made the demand for delayed timing and the pressure to acquit Yoon explicit:

Rushing to a decision [from the Constitutional Court] before Lee Jae Myung’s expected convictions that would make him ineligible as a presidential candidate is unacceptably politicized and would vindicate the most cynical observations. The thinly veiled pretense of the color of law over this coup d’etat should be ripped away…Withdrawing from the case may prove to be the best move.

Opposition party representative Park Sun-won has also claimed that the US had been exerting pressure through diplomatic channels to align the impeachment date as close to Lee Jae Myung’s sentencing as possible.

Morse Tan’s threat can be seen as a warning shot from the US deep state to the Constitutional Court not to impeach Yoon and to other parties to abandon Lee Jae Myung.

Clearly, there is intense US coercion behind the scenes to get the outcome it wants.

South Korea is now a tinderbox on the brink.

One million protestors hit the streets over the weekend, demanding the Constitutional court deliver its verdict immediately.  Some of these protestors had been previously protesting in the snow for weeks, demanding justice. From the right, there has been open aggression by right wing counter-impeachment protesters, paid up or pumped up with “anti-communist” fervor by religious leaders and the ruling party, repeating ARD and CPAC tropes on “Chinese communist intervention”.

These shock troops have destroyed and rampaged through Seoul’s Western District Courthouse, assaulted opposition party politicians, as well as attacked Chinese tourists as “spies”. The right have openly spoken of reconstituting the North West Youth league–the genocidal red-baiting death squads of the Korean war.

And so, it seems the American flag-waving beatings will continue until the anti-communist morale improves in the country.  Regardless of the rulings to come, South Korea’s destiny is precarious: more potential turbulence, more violence, even potential civil war.  Certainly more twists and turns.

If the constitutional court acquits Yoon, there will be mass popular protests in the millions: Yoon will be incapable of ruling and is likely to declare martial law again, if only to save his bacon (he is facing insurrection charges).  Recent news has revealed that Yoon had plans to declare martial law multiple times.

On the other hand, if the constitutional court successfully impeaches Yoon, the ruling party and its followers will pull out all the stops:  street violence and a Maidan-type insurrection by the right wing cannot be ruled out.

The quiet acquiescence of the right as was the case after the Park Geun Hye impeachment is unlikely, given the heated propaganda allegations and the polarized ideology.

So, South Korea is facing risky outcomes either way.   The forces acting on this small country are immense.  Whether Koreans get a clear diamond or spontaneous combustion from the immense pressure remains to be seen.

There is a tiny, narrow path that would relieve pressure and facilitate a more peaceful outcome. If the US removes its finger from the scale in South Korean affairs–and disavows the US-flag-waving right that it is stoking and supporting–a single word of reprimand would deflate the South Korean right-wing like a sharp pin to a blow up doll.

But that would take a geostrategic shift–a downshifting and downsizing dreams of US Hegemony, and a turn towards peace and win-win.

Is the US capable of this?  Or will it continue its dangerous ways?  The fate of the peninsula–and possibly the planet–lies in the balance.

In this article:China, Morse Tan, South Korea, Taiwan, Yoon Suk-yeol

Morse Tan supported the imposition of tyranny to save democracy.

Makes as much sense as the idea we should stab Morse in the heart to save his life.

Another great article about a subject rarely, if ever, covered by the mass media monopolies.

Supporting ruthless, right-wing, authoritarian dictatorships in the RoK has a long tradition in the US (and UK) since 1945 and is perfectly consistent with the US supporting right-wing, authoritarian governments across the globe. The US largely turned a blind-eye to the atrocities and crimes of the Japanese occupation, and supported Korean former stooges and collaborators (traitors) of the Japanese.

If I were Korean, I would consider any US-backed, right-wing lackey as an enemy of the Korean people, and a traitor.

(The Nuremberg show trials notwithstanding; This was similar to turning a blind eye to former Nazis by the US/UK governments and occupation forces after the war. So we can credit the US and UK governments for being consistent and predictable.)

JJ: You would “consider any US-backed, right-wing lackey as an enemy of the Korean people, and a traitor.”

One clue the Korean “leader” is a traitor is if he is willing to behave like a performing monkey, as Yoon Suk-yeol did when he sang “American Pie” to genocide Joe in 2023.

Any independent leader, if they agreed to sing, would insist that Biden also join in the performance by Joe simultaneously making love to an American pie, as in the movie.

Otherwise just sing the Internationale, which would open a few sphincters into the audience.

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Major study shows world sees USA as biggest threat, and prefers China

How China prepared for the new global food crisis, caused by the US war on Iran

Trump boasts ‘we’re like pirates’, seizing Iran’s ships, as China challenges US sanctions

Trump’s failed China trip shows his trade war backfired, and US corporations are desperate

Even American war hawks now admit Iran is defeating the US – and it will change the world

Americans are NOT wealthy: The truth about the US economy

Dollar system in crisis: The real reason the US bailed out Japan

[USA Israel meddle Colombia election Abelardo de la Espriella]

How USA & Israel put drug cartel-linked US citizen in power in Colombia

[fernando cerimedo scandal bolivia latin america right trump us]

Huge scandal exposes how USA uses criminals to manipulate elections in Latin America

The truth behind Trump’s trade war with Canada: It will blow back

USA votes against entire world, opposing equal representation of Africa, as it pushes to revive colonialism

US politicians are exploiting their own supporters with meme coin scams

The real reason why Trump invited China’s President Xi to Washington

Trump’s summit with President Xi Jinping led to few results, but symbolized how the US lost its trade war. Now top US corporations want...

[USA Israel meddle Colombia election Abelardo de la Espriella] [USA Israel meddle Colombia election Abelardo de la Espriella]

How USA & Israel put drug cartel-linked US citizen in power in Colombia

Colombia's ex President Gustavo Petro accused the USA and Israel of meddling in the election to put in power far-right leader Abelardo de la...

[survey world says USA biggest threat] [survey world says USA biggest threat]

Major study shows world sees USA as biggest threat, and prefers China

A global survey found people in most countries see the United States as the biggest threat to the world, and prefer China over the...

Trump’s failed China trip shows his trade war backfired, and US corporations are desperate

Donald Trump visited Beijing alongside the billionaire CEOs of a dozen top US corporations. His failure to pressure China to meet his demands demonstrated...
