"We don't want the world to end - not with a bang, not with a whimper": KJ Noh

Deep Dive Interview with KJ Noh on West Asian War,

Yesterday I had a deep conversation with Korean-American author, geopolitical analyst, educator, military veteran and peace campaigner, KJ Noh.

The conversation began with how the USA’s global strategy, as enacted through the strike on Iran, may have spun out of control and endangered the world. We spoke a few hours after news came through of the launch of Iranian ballistic missiles towards Diego Garcia military base in the Indian Ocean. The strike demonstrated targeting and range capabilities beyond what was, at least publicly, assumed by USA intelligence about Iranian threats. Where will this end? KJ Noh shared his assessment of the Iran/Gulf/West Asia war but rightly said it is too early in the conflict to answer that question.

We ended the conversation with hopes of a more cooperative world that may emerge after this conflict and further weakening of the USA empire’s hold over its allies and rivals. It was in that context, and with reference to all the apocalyptic thinking that has infected USA-affiliated elites, that KJ said

“We don’t want the world to end - not with a bang, not with a whimper.”

You can watch the interview here on Substack and on my YouTube channel. No ads here on Substack, of course! But do me a favour and head over to the YouTube channel and watch there and give it a like. My latest video seemed heavily suppressed by the algorithm - so some positive messages to our technological masters would really help me out!

-   how the USA is functioning as an integrated empire, state and a society

-   the 'opportunity for decolonisation' to be completed as USA power and authority wanes

-   how Japan is trapped by its security dependence on the USA and, in KJ’s views, the compromised legacy of the post-colonial, de facto one-party state political system in Japan

-   how a 'middle power' like South Korea is responding to that opportunity under post-2025 President Lee Jae Myung's leadership?

-   how China and supporters of UN system are responding to the problems created by the USA going rogue

We also discussed the legacy of USA neo-colonial rule over South Korea since 1945, not just the grand geo-political effects, but its impact on Korean society and culture. We briefly discussed the international child adoption scandal that came to prominence last year and which will be subjected to a more searching Truth and Reconciliation commission process. I have discussed this sensitive issue and Korean history, society, culture and politics with KJ previously in interviews with KJ on my YouTube channel, shown below.

KJ has also recently co-authored a book, referred to during the interview, KILLING DEMOCRACY: Western Imperialism’s Legacy of Regime Change and Media Manipulation (co-authors: Finian Cunningham, Daniel Kovalik, Jeremy Kuzmarov, KJ Noh, Ron Ridenour).

If you would like to support KJ’s voice for peace, please consider buying his book.

Korea Crisis: Deep causes of the real crisis of Korea and US power | Interview with KJ Noh

Korean International Adoption Scandal | How did it happen? | KJ Noh Interview

South Korea chooses PEACE and SOVEREIGNTY over US Dominance | KJ Noh on Korea's pivotal election

Listen to historian and author, Jeff Rich jeffrich.substack.com read his histories of the changing world - not just the politics of the Western world, but the cultures, societies, and literature of the whole world. On the Burning Archive substack, Jeff Rich reads, in his unique voice, deep dives, essays, & slow reads every week. They help you to make sense of a puzzling world. Paid subscribers get bonus guides and monthly long reads. Founders/Angels receive the exclusive Civilizations in History & Nature program.

Summer of Fire and Blood: the German Peasants’ War

The World has a Three Body Problem | Anna Chen

Civilizations in History. . . and Nature. Module Two

Emmanuel Todd: "Iran is Last Western War against the World" Live with Jeff Rich and Ali Mirza
