How to Read the New National Security Strategy Document

The New US National Security Strategy (NSS) has been released.  This is a critically important document prepared by every administration that sets out the United States’ national security priorities, along with a formulation of the strategy and policies it proposes to address these concerns.

As would be expected with such a high stakes document, there are already many interpretations of it.

Here are some suggestions on how to read it.

1. First of all, read it.  Avoid simplistic, partial, and hot take interpretations on the web and read it–the whole thing–for yourself.  It’s a relatively short read: 33 pages.

2. Remember that there are two versions of the NSS: a public-facing (propaganda/PR) document and a classified version mandated by law.  The public-facing document has been redacted, the tone modulated/adjusted,  its messaging/rhetoric targeted, and ambiguity inserted.  It serves as messaging to the rest of the world, both enemy abd ally.

Hence, be cautious of highly interpretative/interpreted takes that seem colored by politics, ideology, desire or emotions (wishful thinking, obsessive paranoia, axes-to-grind, or jubilant vindication). The document requires hermeneutic rigor to unpack and fully understand.   This means you should do the following:

3. Look for and notice the contradictions, gaps, and inconsistencies in the document.  The gaps are where the truth is trying to speak.

a) the strong critique of European politics vs. its declared, preambular respect for “non-interference”, “national sovereignty” and national politics/policies

b) its declaration of pragmatic, “flexible realism” and desire for “genuinely mutually advantageous economic relationship with Beijing” vs “stopping Predatory, state-directed subsidies and industrial strategies”

c) contradictions in the language about “non-interference” vs. “fairness”.

d) language on priorities: is this real restraint, or merely re-sequencing?

Look/listen for different voices (tones, perspectives, goals, factions) in the writing, esp. idiosyncratic tones or ideas, such as echoes of President Trump’s worldview, Undersecretary Colby’s ideas, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent’s messaging, as well as other messages targeted or modulated for specific audiences (see 3).

5. Look for edits (they can be deduced), leaks/slippage (there is leakage and slippage), and subtext; consider what the classified, non-public version might say, or what was really intended.  For example, is “maintaining determined rhetoric” the same thing as [forcing] commitment or is it rhetorical?

6. Look for unusual phrases, phrasings, and locutions (see 3, 4, 5 above)

7. Look for continuity with previous NSS; in particular, as well as coded and compressed (but hostile) language that refers to other doctrines, policies and papers, such as “Free and Open Indo Pacific”;  “Predatory, state-directed subsidies and industrial strategies”, “Unfair trading practices”, “Grand-scale intellectual property theft”, “Threats against our supply chains” and references to Undersecretary Colby’s own Strategy of Denial doctrine (on Taiwan)

8. Note differences/contrasts with previous NSS’s; note what is surprising/unexpected; ask why.

9. Most importantly, seek to distinguish between “remarks” (rhetoric; boilerplate with no force) and “code”: policies which the administration is serious about making happen, items with illocutionary force built in or policies which are already in motion (see 3 above).

Was it redacted out? (Does it survive in the classified version? Will it be elaborated in subsequent documents?)

It’s an important document, and understanding it properly will help orient you in all matters relating to US and global geopolitics.

In this period of accelerated information warfare, it’s important to think critically for yourself!

K J Noh is a journalist, political analyst, writer, and teacher specializing in the geopolitics of the Asia-Pacific region.

[graphic for roaming charges column by Jeffrey St. Clair]

-   Trump’s Unprovoked Attack on Venezuela and International Law

“We’re Going to Run the Country:” Preparing an Illegal Occupation in Venezuela

Prominent Think Tank Joins Media in Endorsing Trump’s Foreign Policy

American Imperialism and the Mad Fantasies of Donald Trump

Restoring the Nobel Peace Prize to Its Peace-Promotion Vocation

Does Legalization of Sex Work Create Trafficking and Sex Tourism?

Report from Caracas: The US Kidnaps President Nicolás Maduro, but Venezuela Fights Back and Maintains Its Revolution

US Starts 2026 by Bombing Venezuela and Kidnapping Its President, Setting a Tone of Imperialist Violence for the Year

With the Attack on Venezuela, Trump Has Put the Death of International Law in Plain Sight

Trump’s Venezuelan Coup: Criminal Attacks by a Criminal Empire

The Don-roe Doctrine in Action: Trump’s Gangster Intervention in Venezuela

Brazil’s President Lula condemns US Bombing and Kidnapping in Venezuela

The US Government is Not the Daddy of US Oil Companies

A Predawn Op in Latin America? The US has Been Here Before, But the Seizure of Venezuela’s Maduro is Still Unprecedented

Portraits by the Mysterious “Master I.S.”:  An Art History Detective Story

Oligarchy XIV: Thoughts on the Anarchism of Dorothy Day

Bari Weiss Pulls 60 Minutes’ Report on Trump Outsourcing Torture to El Salvador’s CECOT Prison

[graphic button for joining counterpunch news updates mailing list]

Photograph Source: The Japanese Ministry of Defense – 本屋 – 本屋’s file (self-made) – CC BY-SA 3.0

Japanese PM Sanae Takaichi stunned the world when she declared publicly in the Japanese legislature, that a Taiwan contingency could constitute a “survival threatening situation” that would allow Japanese military intervention in “collective defense”.

Words matter.  Especially when they are words with legal force, uttered in an official capacity.

Applied to Taiwan, it allows expeditionary military force against China.  Since Japan acknowledges the one-China policy in the Sino-Japanese Joint Statement, this would constitute a violation of international law. In fact, it would be war of aggression.

Alternatively, if we adhere to the legal fiction that the Japanese military is only defensive, Takaichi has stated that its defensive perimeter extends to Taiwan–nonsense, given that Japan surrendered colonial control in 1945.

If we put the shoe on the other foot—if any third country had said that the domestic affairs of another country’s internal provinces were a survival-threatening issue, we would all recognize it as a belligerent, casus bellipretext.

To permit an external state to assert such a statement against another sovereign state without consequence would render nationhood—the backbone of international law—meaningless.

Japan’s ruling  Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) was constituted from a coalition of organized crime, military-industrial tycoons, and war criminals, funded by the US CIA.

The LDP was constituted to implant an anti-communist, US quisling government in Japan.  Since its inception it has been staunchly subservient, but also quietly and insistently revisionist.  It has evinced little regret for Japan’s Imperial violence, and ruling factions have held hawkish aspirations to re-establish Japan as a military power. It has held power almost continuously since1955–effectively one party political rule.

Kishi Nobusuke, war criminal, LDP founder, and prime minister (1957-1960), dreamed of remilitarizing Japan.  In 2015, his grandson, Shinzo Abe achieved his dream: he disabled the Japanese Peace constitution, authorizing it to wage war in “collective defense” anytime it encountered a “survival threatening situation”.

Japan used this term in 1894, 1931, 1937, 1941 when it initiated aggressive war.  It is the tried-and-true casus belli excuse. But Takaichi did Abe one better–she let the cat out of the bag: she let the world know that this clause is actually a plan for war of aggression against China

Prime Minister Takaichi was mentored by former prime minister Shinzo Abe.  She belonged to Abe’s Seiwa faction of the LDP, the ultra-nationalist, far-right faction that envisions a return to authoritarian, monarchical rule with an unleashed military.

The Prime Minister is also a member of Nippon Kaigi, the ultra-right group that dreams of reconstituting the Japanese Empire.

Nippon Kaigi denies the atrocities of Unit 731, the Nanjing massacre, the comfort women, and the slave state of Manchukuo.  It asserts that Japanese imperialism was a benign attempt to create an “Asian co-prosperity sphere”.

Nothing demonstrates the continuity of this revisionist imperial ideology more clearly than Yasukuni shrine, where Takaichi has been a frequent visitor.

Yasukuni shrine was created by the Meiji Emperor as a temporal Valhalla to reward loyal troops who sacrificed themselves for the Emperor.  According to State Shinto mythology, it deifies the kami (spirits) of troops to honor their sacrifices.  As such it rehabilitates and sanctifies 1066 convicted war criminals: at Yasukuni, they are not criminals but Gods to worship.

“Long live the Emperor!  I’ll meet you at Yasukuni shrine” was the shout of Japanese Imperial Troops before entering battle.  Yasukuni is the place where the flame of unrepentant, genocidal militarism is kept alive and consecrated.

Given this, visiting Yasukuni shrine is to intentionally glorify the criminality of the Japanese Empire—an insult to the conscience of the world.  It is a middle finger to humanity and human suffering.

It is impossible to consider these things in only a domestic light: Japan is a US client state: it surrendered to the US, its constitution was written by the US, its ruling party put into power by the US, and its economy has been manipulated by the US (for example, during the Plaza accords).  It is currently militarily occupied by 53,000 US troops with 70 bases.

As the US prepares and escalates incrementally and unmistakably for war with China, Japan is the critical force multiplier: prime minister Nakasone famously referred to Japan as an “unsinkable aircraft carrier” for the US.

In fact, Japan has always colluded in US wars: as a bombing/logistics platform during the Korean and Vietnam wars, and then as an active, boots-on-the-ground partner in later wars.

War against China will be the final chapter of Japanese remilitarization:  Japan will provide military muscle, provision key military supply chains and do shipbuilding and battle repair.

This is why the Obama-Biden administration pulled South Korea into a trilateral military alliance with Japan and the US (JAKUS), why Japan is a member of the QUAD, why it has a US space force base and a NATO liaison office, and why the US is actively taking control of Japanese military through a joint command structure similar to South Korea’s.

All this has been signaled and telegraphed.  For example, Japan is militarizing the islands closest to Taiwan province with offensive missiles.  This aligns with the CSIS war games study that concluded Japanese participation is essential: Japan is the military linchpin for war.

This also dovetails with Japan’s doubling of its military budget, now amounting to 7.5％ of the government’s budget.  The contradictions of a “pacifist” country with a military budget larger than that of 182 countries–should make everyone pause. If budgets are moral statements, then moral depravity is the only conclusion to draw from such an appropriation: the former continental genocidaire is rearming for war.

Likewise, intimations that it will abandon its non-nuclear position are also worrisome.  This, in combination with high-level US discourse to use tactical nuclear weapons in case of war with China, render these positions politically terrifying.  The US’s recently announced plan to create a new class of battleships with sea-launched nuclear cruise missiles is also a horrifying addition to this escalation.

These things signal that Takaichi’s statement is not a personal lapsus, but an expression of deep-rooted Japanese intentions that dovetail with the US agenda: using Japan to contain and fight China.

Undersecretary Elbridge Colby’s recent demand in July that Japan clarify its position in the case of the Taiwan contingency underlines this US agenda clearly.

Historically, no other country fits the subcontracting requirements as well as Japan:  Japan has waged aggressive war against China in 1592-1598, 1894-1895, 1931-1937, 1937-1945.  In the most recent war, 35 million Chinese were casualties of Japanese violence.

No opprobrium is too strong for the former Imperial genocidaire of Asia rearming for aggressive war. Even those who seek to harness and use this militarism against China, may ultimately come to regret this, if past history is any indication.  A loose cannon is a danger to all.  A nuclear-armed Japan with a history of unbridled atrocity is a global threat.

China seeks win-win, mutually beneficial relations with everyone, a community with a shared future for mankind.  It has put forward concrete proposals and institutions to realize this difficult, but necessary historic vision. This is the only way for peace and stability, the only way forward for the world.  The entire world needs to come together to condemn—and stop–Japan’s accelerating militarism: for most of Asia, Japan’s remilitarization is the real survival threatening situation.

A version of this article was published in the Beijing Review

K J Noh is a journalist, political analyst, writer, and teacher specializing in the geopolitics of the Asia-Pacific region.

[graphic for roaming charges column by Jeffrey St. Clair]

-   Trump’s Unprovoked Attack on Venezuela and International Law

Donald Trump’s $6 Trillion Tax Hike and Increase in Military Spending

Ex-Presidents and Democratic Leaders Silent on the Impeachment of Donald Trump

Will Trump’s Residential Investment Ban Really Make Housing More Affordable?

How a Bird Flu Outbreak Wiped Out a Generation of Seals in Patagonia and What It Means for Wildlife Conservation

Trump to Venezuelans: Give Me Your Oil, Obey My Commands or Die!

Alliance Stops Secret Plans to Clearcut Yellowstone’s Western Flank                                                                                   Yellowstone’s Western Flank

Trump’s Persecution of Jerome Powell and Political Opponents Must End

The Science on the Hep B Vaccine for Newborns

Renee Good and the Rage that Fuels State Violence

The New York Times Support for Israel Never Ends

Chronicle of a Foretold Coup: The Attack on Venezuela and the Narco-Terrorism Fairy Tale

Support for the People’s Struggle: A Statement on the Developments in Iran

The Next Frontier of Climate Accountability: Making Big Food Pay Its Ecological Bill

The Politics of Premature Adjudication: The Bondi Royal Commission

From Venezuelan Communes to U.S. Blocks: Same Struggle, Same Fight.

An ICE Murder in Minneapolis and its Horrific Aftermath

Nicolás Maduro Refused to be a Slave to Empire

Democracy Challenged: Who Governs Gaza? Who Runs Venezuela? “Who Does New York Belong To?”

Goebbels’s Ghost and Miller’s Dream of a “Unified Reich.”

[graphic button for joining counterpunch news updates mailing list]

Why some US elites want South Korea to be a ‘dictatorship for democracy’

A top former US State Department official, Morse Tan, claimed South Korea’s President Yoon Suk-yeol declared martial law and attempted a military coup in order to “preserve democracy”.

A joint military exercise between the US and South Korea in 2019 (Photo credit: US Army / public domain)

Morse Tan, a high-ranking former US State Department official, let the cat out of the bag on the US ruling elite position on South Korea’s martial law.

He declared that President Yoon Suk-yeol declared martial law to “preserve democracy”. At a rally in South Korea, Tan said:

President Yoon declared martial law, and it is to preserve your democracy, that this country was made, and exists, by you, and for you, that President Yoon stuck out his neck, in a heroic way, and stood up to awaken this country, to the realities of what are going on in this country.

Having previously labeled South Korea a model democracy, this is a No-Scotsman-move taken to absurdity.

Tan also openly threatened South Korea’s government against upholding Yoon’s impeachment. Writing for the global news agency UPI on March 18, he warned:

Removing Yoon may trigger Section 7008 punishments from the United States government, which can include the elimination of: Bilateral Economic Assistance (III), International Security Assistance (IV), Multilateral Assistance (V), and Export and Investment Assistance (VI).

The US applies Section 7008 when a country is deemed to have undergone a military coup, or a coup d’etat “where the military has played a significant role”. Under those circumstances, critical aid is withdrawn from the country. It is an extreme measure — the political equivalent of banishment and excommunication — exercised against a state.

If Tan’s threats are material, South Korea risks being grouped with Myanmar, Gabon, Niger, Burkina Faso, and Sudan — other countries currently under section 7008 listing. Notice the explicit use of the word “punishment”.

Now Tan is not a current US government official, but he is an indicator of what the US national security state is thinking, in particular, what its neoconservative wing is thinking. Tan also recently claimed that “the impeachment against Yoon is an insurrection” led by opposition party leader Lee Jae Myung, “who wants to turn the country over to the Chinese communists”.

As absurd and conspiratorial as these allegations sound, these are actually finely tuned and well-honed Washington-CPAC talking points about Chinese threats and interference in Korea, and they are echoed endlessly, if histrionically, by US flag-waving foot soldiers at South Korean protests and on YouTube.

These anti-China messages were also repeated in German State TV ARD’s documentary “Staatskrise im Schatten von China und Nordkorea” (State Crisis in the Shadow of China and North Korea), released to its German public television website on February 25. The documentary claimed that China had hacked South Korea’s legislative election to put the opposition DP party into power, which is now taking orders from North Korea and China to impeach Yoon.

There is clearly a highly convergent and disciplined campaign of anti-China propaganda around the impeachment. ARD removed its documentary, but the damage has clearly been done.

It’s impossible not to highlight the absurdity of Tan’s statement that “Yoon declared martial law (i.e. military dictatorship) to preserve democracy”. And, as a foreign national, Tan is breaking South Korean law by directly participating in domestic Korean politics. But the free rein he is given, and the lack of disavowal or reprimand from the State Department – if only for his own safety – is very revealing.

Tan’s position in the state department was “Ambassador at Large”. These are powerful, Viceroy-type postings: they represent US policy and US interests on a (grand) strategic level. Consider other Ambassadors-at-Large: Averell Harriman, Henry Cabot Lodge,  Paul Nitze, Paul Bremer III, StrobeTalbott,  Robert Gallucci. These are not individuals given to improvising and airing idiosyncratic personal opinions.

As a former state Viceroy, with the enduring prestige and power of state connections, the platforms that Tan has been given to expound his views signal that he is expressing the direction of official doctrine, reflected both in Tan’s public statements, state media talking points, and the coordinated erasure of counterviewpoints.

US policy on South Korea’s dictatorship/martial law is analogous to its policy on Taiwan: Strategic “ambiguity” in language, concrete support and escalation in actions.  The “ambiguity” serves to pretextually mask war preparations against China.

Of course, there is nothing ambiguous about the strategy, other than the desire for a fig leaf of plausible deniability.

What the US wants from Korea is that which is strategically most advantageous for the US: a right-wing Korean client regime to do the bidding of the US, to escalate and prepare for war with China.

This is a war that it has been envisioning since the early 2000s, and which was institutionalized by Obama’s “Pivot to Asia”.

In fact, the reason Yoon Suk Yeol was selected, elected, and lionized as South Korea’s president is because he was a walking neoconservative fulfillment list for this war.

As these war preparations accelerate and intensify, a South Korean military dictatorship with the US in control of the South Korean military is the easiest and most advantageous configuration to enact these plans. The US will settle for a client-plutocratic democratic state, but dictatorship has actually been the historical norm since South Korea was created by the US.

Given the tight timelines involved, it is also possible for this configuration to be instituted again: this project of war is urgent and time-bound: US natsec heavyweights have calendared 2025 and 2027 (“the Minihan” & “Davidson windows”) as the propitious date range to trigger war with China.

First, geographically and historically, Korea has always been the on ramp and bridgehead for invasion into China. War with China has always started from the Korean peninsula or Taiwan island, usually as interlinked pairs.

Second, South Korea has the world’s third-largest standing army — including reservists, 3.6 million troops — larger than the militaries of China and Russia combined. The US gets operational control over these troops immediately if there is war.  War with China is thus most compatible and convenient with a South Korean dictatorship.

There is very strong circumstantial evidence that the US knew beforehand about Yoon’s martial law declaration, due to the length and intricacy of the preparation and the aggressive military nature of the operation-which would have required coordination and communication with US forces in Korea.   At the very least, they would have been aware.  And regardless, they would have benefited, geostrategically.

Sworn testimony shows that Yoon’s gambit was to trigger war with North Korea (through drone attacks, missile attacks, shelling, false flag assassinations of opposition) to justify declaring martial law.  Only poor execution, North Korean forbearance, and rapid citizen mobilization prevented the seamless rollout of this military coup.

Evidence has come out that Yoon was preparing repeated coups. Historically, all military coups on the southern peninsula have been greenlighted by the US.

On that point, Morse Tan is the Nancy Pelosi of Korea: he functions like a Track II US envoy–cheerleading for a right-wing South Korean military coup, with just the slightest hint of plausible deniability.

Note the dead radio silence out of Washington throughout this whole process: silence during the Martial Law declaration, silence after the rejection of Martial Law, silence after the impeachment, and silence throughout.  Not a word of critique or condemnation. Note also the deafening hush of the mainstream corporate media.

Meanwhile, the fissures in South Korean society are approaching civil war.

There is already intergovernmental war: on March 22nd the CIO (Corruption Investigation Office, similar to the US Inspector General) raided the Prosecutor’s Office (similar to the Attorney General) for corruption, just days after the Prosecutor’s Office raided the CIO for evidence of warrant shopping on Yoon’s impeachment.

This would be like the Inspector General raiding the Attorney General after the Attorney General raided the Inspector General.

Yoon has been released from custody on a technicality (“counting hours, not days”) despite being indicted for insurrection.  His co-conspirators are still incarcerated, but the ringleader is free, highlighting the absurdity of the ruling.  The prosecutor’s office, ostensibly committed to prosecuting Yoon, did not even bother to file an appeal.

The prosecutor’s office is considered to be Yoon’s private army — Yoon was the former prosecutor general of Korea, and he promised to create a “Republic of Prosecutors”.  That much he has been successful on.

Han Duck Soo, the impeached South Korean Prime minister (and former acting president) has just had his impeachment reversed, and is now acting president again.

The constitutional court found that Han had violated the constitution (by refusing to appoint already approved justices to the Constitutional Court to rule on the impeachment issue) but they reinstated him anyway. Never mind the irony that the court could have lacked standing to try his case if he had been successful in disabling the court.

Han had also been tasked with appointing an independent counsel to investigate Yoon (to avoid the conflicts of interest that have appeared with the prosecutor’s office), but he had declined, leading to the current debacle of suspect loyalties and suspicious/delayed/tampered/sabotaged legal processes.

One Constitutional Court justice claimed that the current political chaos was directly related to Han’s malfeasance and non-cooperation in these matters and found for impeachment–but she was a tiny minority of one in the ruling.

The Constitutional Court’s ruling on Han Duck Soo was already problematic in that it was out of sequence. The fact that they ruled first before Yoon’s case, and ruled against impeachment is an ominous signal.

Two other high officials, Kim Seong-hun, and Lee Kwang-woo (of the presidential security service), indicted for impeding Yoon’s arrest, have recently also had their arrest warrants rejected.

These are powerful figures who are now at large, with huge axes to grind. The trends are not in favor of impartial justice or peaceful resolution.

The delayed impeachment ruling of Yoon itself is widely thought to be due to Washington’s pressure: it has been one month since the testimony was completed, but still there has been no ruling.  This is abnormally long for what is an open-and-shut case: there is no doubt that Yoon declared martial law (he is on television declaring it!), and there is no doubt that he used extra-constitutional means–military force–to implement it and to try to prevent its rescission.

But it’s widely considered that the ruling was delayed so that Lee Jae Myung’s appeal ruling on March 26 would be rendered before the constitutional court’s ruling on Yoon is made public. Now, the appellate court has currently exonerated Lee Jae Myung, but he is still facing a stack of four other charges.

This is because Lee Jae Myung, the opposition DP party chair, would be the leading candidate for president if the impeachment of Yoon triggers a snap election (in 60 days). He is currently 20+ points ahead of any other potential candidate by polling. The presidency would be his to take under normal circumstances.

However, if Lee is found guilty in any court of any of the charges levied against him, he would be stripped of all political rights for a decade, and the opposition DP would lose its strongest candidate.  Washington does not want Lee Jae Myung as president, because it’s understood that he would balance with China against the US, and de-escalate the coming war on China. Hence the delay and pressure.

Tan has made the demand for delayed timing and the pressure to acquit Yoon explicit:

Rushing to a decision [from the Constitutional Court] before Lee Jae Myung’s expected convictions that would make him ineligible as a presidential candidate is unacceptably politicized and would vindicate the most cynical observations. The thinly veiled pretense of the color of law over this coup d’etat should be ripped away…Withdrawing from the case may prove to be the best move.

Opposition party representative Park Sun-won has also claimed that the US had been exerting pressure through diplomatic channels to align the impeachment date as close to Lee Jae Myung’s sentencing as possible.

Morse Tan’s threat can be seen as a warning shot from the US deep state to the Constitutional Court not to impeach Yoon and to other parties to abandon Lee Jae Myung.

Clearly, there is intense US coercion behind the scenes to get the outcome it wants.

South Korea is now a tinderbox on the brink.

One million protestors hit the streets over the weekend, demanding the Constitutional court deliver its verdict immediately.  Some of these protestors had been previously protesting in the snow for weeks, demanding justice. From the right, there has been open aggression by right wing counter-impeachment protesters, paid up or pumped up with “anti-communist” fervor by religious leaders and the ruling party, repeating ARD and CPAC tropes on “Chinese communist intervention”.

These shock troops have destroyed and rampaged through Seoul’s Western District Courthouse, assaulted opposition party politicians, as well as attacked Chinese tourists as “spies”. The right have openly spoken of reconstituting the North West Youth league–the genocidal red-baiting death squads of the Korean war.

And so, it seems the American flag-waving beatings will continue until the anti-communist morale improves in the country.  Regardless of the rulings to come, South Korea’s destiny is precarious: more potential turbulence, more violence, even potential civil war.  Certainly more twists and turns.

If the constitutional court acquits Yoon, there will be mass popular protests in the millions: Yoon will be incapable of ruling and is likely to declare martial law again, if only to save his bacon (he is facing insurrection charges).  Recent news has revealed that Yoon had plans to declare martial law multiple times.

On the other hand, if the constitutional court successfully impeaches Yoon, the ruling party and its followers will pull out all the stops:  street violence and a Maidan-type insurrection by the right wing cannot be ruled out.

The quiet acquiescence of the right as was the case after the Park Geun Hye impeachment is unlikely, given the heated propaganda allegations and the polarized ideology.

So, South Korea is facing risky outcomes either way.   The forces acting on this small country are immense.  Whether Koreans get a clear diamond or spontaneous combustion from the immense pressure remains to be seen.

There is a tiny, narrow path that would relieve pressure and facilitate a more peaceful outcome. If the US removes its finger from the scale in South Korean affairs–and disavows the US-flag-waving right that it is stoking and supporting–a single word of reprimand would deflate the South Korean right-wing like a sharp pin to a blow up doll.

But that would take a geostrategic shift–a downshifting and downsizing dreams of US Hegemony, and a turn towards peace and win-win.

Is the US capable of this?  Or will it continue its dangerous ways?  The fate of the peninsula–and possibly the planet–lies in the balance.

After Ukraine, US readies ‘transnational kill chain’ for Taiwan proxy war

Washington approved the dangerous sale of the Link 16 communications system to Taiwan. This is the final link of what the US military calls a “transnational coalition kill chain” against China, and signals a commitment to kinetic war.

In many traditions, when you paint or sculpt a Buddha, the eyes are the very last to be painted. It’s only after the eyes have been completed that the sculpture is fully alive and empowered.

The United States has approved a $75 million weapons package to Taiwan province, involving the sale of the Link 16 communications system.

The acquisition of Link 16 is analogous to “painting the eyes on the Buddha”: a last touch, it makes Taiwan’s military systems and weapons platforms live and far-seeing.

It confers deadly powers, or more prosaically, in the words of the US military, it completes Taiwan as the final, lethal link of what the US Naval Institute calls a “transnational coalition kill chain”, for war against China.

What exactly is Link 16? It is a key system in the US military communications arsenal. Specifically, it’s the jam-resistant tactical data network for coordinating NATO weapons systems for joint operations in war.

If this sale is completed, it signals serious, granular, and single-minded commitment to kinetic war. It would signal that the Biden administration is as serious and unwavering in its desire to provoke and wage large-scale war with China over Taiwan as it was with Russia over Ukraine, which also saw the implementation of this system.

More important than any single weapons platform, this system allows the Taiwan/ROC military to integrate and coordinate all its warfighting platforms with US, NATO, Japanese, Korean, Australian militaries in combined arms warfare.

Link 16 would be the deadliest piece of technology yet to be transferred, because it allows sea, air, and land forces to be coordinated with others for lethal effect.

It permits, for example, strategic nuclear/stealth bombers  (US B-1B Lancers, B-2 Spirits) to coordinate with electronic warfare and surveillance platforms  (EA Growlers, Prowlers, EP-3s), fighters and bombers (F-16,F-22, F-35s) as well as conduct joint arms warfare with US, French, British carrier battle groups, Japanese SDF destroyers, and South Korean Hyun Moo missile destroyers, as well as THAAD and Patriot radars and missile batteries.

It also allows coordination with low-earth orbit satellites and other Space Force assets.

In other words, Link 16 supplies a brain and nervous system to the various deadly limbs and arms that the Taiwan authorities have been acquiring and preparing on the prompting of the US. It ensures interoperability and US control.

It effectively prepares Taiwan to be used as the spear tip and trigger of a multinational war offensive against China.

To give a shoe-on-the-other-foot analogy, this would be like China giving separatists in a US territory or state (e.g. Hawaii, Guam, Puerto Rico, Texas) not just arms and training – already a belligerent act of war, which the US is currently doing – but connecting insurgent militaries directly to the PLA’s surveillance, reconnaissance, and command/control systems.

This coordinates and completes, to borrow the words of the US Naval Institute (USNI), the final link in a “transnational coalition kill chain” for war.

The current US doctrine of war against China is based on distributed, dispersed, diffused, network-centric warfare to be conducted along the myriad islands of the archipelagic states encircling China in the Pacific.

These are the “island chains” upon which the US has encircled and sown dragon’s teeth: tens of thousands of troops armed with mobile attack platforms and missiles.

This is to be coordinated with subsurface warfare, automated/autonomous warfare, and longer-range stand-off weapons and attacks.

Powerful think tanks like CSBA, CNAS, CSIS, RAND and the Pentagon have been working out the doctrine, details, logistics, and appropriations for this concept intensively for over a decade while advocating intensely for it.

The sale of link 16 to Taiwan realizes and completes a key portion of this, binding the Chinese island as the keystone of this “multinational kill chain”.

This doctrine of dispersion is based on a “rock-paper-scissors” concept that networked diffusion “offsets” (Chinese) precision.

China’s capacity to defend itself and its littoral perimeter with precision missiles can be undermined with diffuse, distributed attacks from all across the island chains.

Note that this diffusion and dispersion of attack platforms across the entire Pacific gives the lie to the claim that this is some inherently deterrent strategy to defend Taiwan island. Diffusion is clearly offensive, designed to overrun and overwhelm defenses: like Ukraine, this is not to deter war, but to enable it.

This thus signals that aggressive total war against China is being prepared, in granular, lethal fashion on tactical and operational levels.

On the strategic level, currently, at the CFR, CNAS, and other influential think tanks in Washington, the talk is all about “protracted warfare” with China, about pre-positioning systems and munitions for war, about ramping up to an industrial war footing for the inescapable necessity of war with China.

This discussion includes preparations for a nuclear first strike on China.

The US senses that the clock is running rapidly down on its power. If war is inevitable, then it is anxious to start war sooner rather than later.

RAND warned in 2016 that 2025 was the outside window for the US to prevail in war with China. The “Minihan window” also hints at 2025. The “Davidson window” is 2027.

The question in Washington regarding war with China is not if, but when–and how.

Link 16 makes “how” easier, and brings “when” closer.

But the US is still engaged in Ukraine. Can it wage a two-front war?

The current administration has hardline Russophobes who want to continue to bleed Russia out in Ukraine. It wants protracted war with Russia. It firmly believes it can wage ambidextrous, multi-front war.

Many US officials also believe that war with Ukraine and war with China are connected. They see Russia and China as a single axis of “revisionist powers” (i.e., official enemies) conspiring against the US to undermine its so-called “rules-based order” (i.e., US hegemony).

Furthermore, if the US abandons Ukraine, this could weaken the Taiwan authorities’ resolve and willingness to wage war on behalf of Washington.

Earlier in the war, when Russian gains in Ukraine were uncertain, Bi-khim Louise Hsiao (Taiwan’s current vice-president elect) gloated publicly and prominently that Ukraine’s victories were a message to China, as well as proof-of-concept of an effective doctrine for waging and winning war against China. As such, the Taiwan authorities were and are a major supporter of the Ukraine proxy war.

But the converse also holds true. Based on the same premise, if the US abandons and loses Ukraine, it sends a clear message to the people on Taiwan island that they will be the next to be used and abandoned; that their US-imposed war and war doctrine (light, distributed, asymmetrical combined arms warfare) for fighting China is a recipe for catastrophic loss.

The US plans on using proxies for war against China: Taiwan, Korea, Japan (JAKUS), Philippines, and Australia (AUKUS). Thus it cannot signal too overtly its perfidious, unreliable, and instrumental mindset.

Washington has to keep up the pretense. It cannot be seen to overtly lose in or abandon Ukraine. It needs a “decent interval”, or a plausible pretext to cut and run.

Still, the US is stretched thin. For example, it is relying on Korean munitions to Ukraine, and South Korea has provided more munitions than all of the EU combined.

Moreover, the US is currently at war with itself. The fracturing of its body politic can only be unified with a common war against a common enemy. Russia is not that enemy for the US. China is. The Republicans want war with China now.

Eli Ratner and Elbridge Colby have been fretting for years about the need to husband weaponry, arms, and munitions in order to wage war against China.

Since the outbreak of Ukraine, Ratner has been working hard to pull India into the US defense industry’s supply chain, and claims to have been successful.

South Korea’s considerable military-industrial complex is being pulled into sub-contracting for US war with China.

Since many of its major Chaebol corporations got their start as subcontractors for the war in Vietnam (for example, Hyundai was a subcontractor for Halliburton/Brown & Root), the Korean economy is simply reverting back to its corporate-martial roots.

South Korea’s economy is currently tanking due to US-forced sanctions on China. Major Korean electronic firms have lost 60 to 80% of their profits due to US-imposed chip sanctions.

Under those conditions, military manufacturing and/or subcontracting looks to be the only way forward.

In this way, the US is forcing a war economy onto its vassals.

Furthermore, US aid to Ukraine benefits its own arms industry.

The business of the US is war. Not only do existing US arms companies gain, but also the entire tech industry and supply chain benefits, and is currently re-orienting around this.

Much of the US tech industry is seeking to suckle from the government teat, now flowing copiously in preparation for war.

On the other hand, the general US economy is not doing well, with massive layoffs, especially in the consumer and business tech sector.

The backstop of military Keynesianism, with the integration of think-tank lobbying groups funded by the arms industry with close ties to the administration (such as CNAS, West Exec Advisors, and CSIS) ensure that war is always the closest ready-to-hand resort for tough economic times.

The US is simultaneously trying to decouple supply chains, which creates opportunities for US firms (both domestically and subcontracting with US vassals).

Automated, AI-enabled warfare will be a key part of this development, as will be dispersed, distributed warfare platforms using proxies such as South Korea and Japan.

This fits the existing historical pattern: the history of Western technology shows that technology and machinery have always been developed first for war.

Afterwards, they become tools of entertainment and distraction, and later productive tools for general industrial use.

This pattern goes back to the earliest machines and inventions of the West: the crane, the pulley, the lever, were all military technologies – machines of war (used in sieges).

Later they became machines of illusion and distraction (used as stage machinery in Greek theater).

Only much later were they applied for general use – and exploitation – in manufacture and production.

-   the internet, originally designed to create redundant military communications in case of nuclear strike;

-   integrated circuit computer chips, a miniaturization of electronic circuits to fit inside the cone of missile guidance systems;

-   digital computers, conceived by Alan Turing while trying to break military encryption;

-   microwave ovens, originally radar technology, initially marketed as the “Radar-range”;

AI, too, from its inception, was conceived for automated battle management, especially to enable second strike after human life had been destroyed.

An AI war is already in the works, with US sanctions on AI-related chips and computing, along with an algorithmic race to suppress dissent and critique in the information domain.

War and business are intricately related in the west, and war is the first lever pulled when the economy stagnates critically or needs a boost.

The US needs to abandon its neoconservative fantasies of hegemonic global empire and retreat gently into that good night, for there to be peace.

Washington needs to negotiate in good faith with Russia, and begin the process of de-escalating its proxies in Ukraine, as well as in Palestine, and the Pacific.

It needs to seek win-win cooperation in a multilateral order based on international law and mutual co-existence, not its own top-down “rules-based order”.

It needs to respect the One China principle, end its interference in China’s affairs, and stop preparing and provoking war with China.

However, the US ruling class is unwilling to do so. And it has only a few levers left to pull. The military one is the closest and most ready to hand.

As Martin Luther King Jr. said, “The US is the greatest purveyor of violence in the world”.

Like a drunk at the bar after the final call – drunk with power – Washington is determined to go out with a fight.

That fight could involve a nuclear first strike. Palestine has shown what it will try to get away with: brazen genocide with the whole world watching.

The issue is no longer war or peace in Ukraine. Deputy Secretary of State Kurt Campbell sees Ukraine as a “unified field” of war with China. He revels in the possibility of a “magnificent symphony of death” in Asia.

The coda, of course, will be a deafening fermata of silence across the entire planet. Unless we stop this insane march to war.

I wrote about the military Keynesianism in the US back in 2012, and it seemed so pertinent today that I reposted it recently.

The public in the US is being snookered and played for fools by the Biden administration. Time to dump genocide Joe.

It’s not “Keynsianism” it’s what Ray McGovern calls the MICIMATT –

Most folks dont’ know who John M. Keynes was, let alone “Keynsianism” and this is not an accurate label for those familiar with JMK.

It aint just Genocide Joe, every single so-called candidate for POTUS supports Israel and Israeli genocide of Palestine unconditionally. This is long-term US foreign policy.

Yes, it’s always been the US policy – Empire etc.

Which means those organizing to get rid of biden are our only chance. If we can convince both parties that a war candidate will be defeated….. I know, pretty slim. I doubt there is another option though.

Parties? vote? How quaint. Massive rebellion is the only thing that can mitigate the status-quo.

As far as I see, the situation in the U.S. is way beyond the ballot. We’ve been military usurped/corporate usurped (take your pick, one in the same). The vote process is all theater; it keeps the public distracted and angry. Biden and Trump are essentially delegated appointees controlled by cloaked oligarchs/dynasties (Blackwater et al.). If general public ever hopes to ‘possibly’ avoid WW3 (regain sovereignty), we’ll need to organize 10+mm similar minded individuals, boycott like hell, and march like our lives depended on it (they do).

Keynesianism is when the government steps in to dump money on something, usually to boost a flagging economy. How is that different than when the government dumps money on the MICIMATT (The Blob)? That is the exact definition of Keynesianism. It is just that it is military Keynesianism.

Mr. Moffet. No if you read Keynes, he advocates gov. spending on infrastructure, social programs etc. (“multiplier effect’) He never advocated for institutional corruption, oligarchy or kleptocracy. Don’t get it twisted. You are thinking of Paul Krugman. Military Krugmansism is more fitting.

Ray McGovern is an expert in his field. However, he does not understand the power of the US Financial Hegemon. Those are the folks behind all this military technologies. In general, they’re zealots in maintaining their incredible wealth. Nothing can stop them save for a few Nuclear Bombs dropped on NYC, D.C. and the armament productions throughout the World.

That’s why we have Michael Hudson. I’m sure you’ve read Super Imperialism.

Having aired my nitpicks: I agree with the major points you make.

I appreciate and agree with this very informative article from KJ Noh.

Re: The public in the US is being snookered and played for fools by the Biden administration. Time to dump genocide Joe.

I agree, John. However, Joe is just a spoke in the wheel of the system. Trump’s another spoke in the wheel of the broken system. If genocide Joe, or demagogue Don are somehow disappeared, they will just be supplanted by subterfuge Sue, egregious Evan, sabotage Sam, or plundering Paula. The usurped US system is like those golden warriors in Hellboy: if you kill one, they will simply reanimate perpetually. It’s the system that must be remade from the top down. The US is nothing more than a rotten holding company. It’s a facade. It’s like an old car that needs a complete overhaul. The American public is expendable in the eyes of the cruelling class. They’ve proven it time and time again: 911, WTC #7, Gulf of Tonkin, the population-modification-inoculation, WMD lie, Nordstream bombing, JFK murder, Iran regime change or 1953, Bobby Kennedy murder, I never had sex with that woman, I never inhaled, and “I’m not a crook.” Hell, a Major General in the U.S. Marines (Smedley Butler), told us what the U.S. empire was about: Racketeers!

The US is like entering the haunted house at the local amusement park and never exiting.

Cure E Us, that reminds me: “If the President does it, it’s not illegal”.

Gen.Butler had the War is a Racket business figured out back in the 1930s. He said the US military was nothing but enforcers for Wall St. banksters and financial parasites. Pretty much sums it up.

Your description reminded me of a thought I had the other day about Netanyahu: “The Prime Monster.”

I have often wondered what Roman citizens thought as they watched the Roman Empire fall apart culturally, politically, morally, and militarily. Cicero, quaestor, praetor and Counsel of Rome, tried to save the Roman Republic. For his efforts he was chased down and murdered. As Cicero was, perhaps, the most famous Roman, his murder stopped efforts to prevent Rome’s descent into tyranny.

The enemies Washington has created for America are not weak. Russia alone, China alone, perhaps even Iran alone, is a match or more for America. The three together constitute a vast over-match of US military capability. Yet Washington continues to increase hostilities with these countries. The mindlessness of my government is unbearable. Such utter stupidity.

Once the moronic Biden regime’s economic sanctions and the US loss of the reserve currency role finish off the US dollar, America is finished. We will be a third world country, and the rest of the world will punish us for the sins of our government.

In Mr. Xi’s telling, China sought to rise peacefully, but Western powers would not accept the idea that a Communist-led China was catching up and could someday overtake them in global primacy. The West would never stop trying to derail China’s ascent and topple its Communist Party, he said in speeches to the military that are largely unreported by the media.

Throughout history, empires have loathed rivals, opponents, adversaries, and competitors. They do everything they can to prevent them from rising, including the imposition of harmful economic measures but even going so far as to initiate wars against them, all with the aim of weakening what they perceive as a rising rival to their empire.

In the eyes of the U.S. national-security establishment, China’s rise posed a grave threat to its post-Cold War role as the world’s sole remaining empire. Something had to be done to bring China down, even if it harmed the American people at the same time. By suppressing China’s economic prosperity, the empire aimed to diminish the amount of tax revenues flowing into the Chinese government’s coffers, thereby limiting its ability to expand its military and its influence around the world.

It’s just the way empires have always worked. Questions naturally arises though for the American people: Is it right for the U.S. government to be wreaking economic damage on the people of another country? Indeed, is it right for the U.S. government to even be an empire?

The American empire considers all people expendable, even American citizens.

KJ Noh: America's Most Loyal Vassal Refuses to Go to War | GEH W/ Radhika Desai

For the first time in its history, South Korea has refused a US demand to send troops to an American war. This is the same country that sent over 300,000 soldiers to fight in the Vietnam War. Regular guest K.J. Noh joins me to explain what is behind President Lee Jae Myung's refusal to join Trump's war on Iran. The pressure comes from a militant labour movement in the streets, Iran's warning over Korea's Gulf assets, and a US empire exposed as a paper tiger. We trace this struggle back to the US-backed massacres South Korea was built on, and ask how far Washington will go to keep its most loyal vassal in line.

KJ é de longe um dos melhores analistas geopolíticos com presença na mídia digital.

"We don't want the world to end - not with a bang, not with a whimper": KJ Noh

Deep Dive Interview with KJ Noh on West Asian War,

Yesterday I had a deep conversation with Korean-American author, geopolitical analyst, educator, military veteran and peace campaigner, KJ Noh.

The conversation began with how the USA’s global strategy, as enacted through the strike on Iran, may have spun out of control and endangered the world. We spoke a few hours after news came through of the launch of Iranian ballistic missiles towards Diego Garcia military base in the Indian Ocean. The strike demonstrated targeting and range capabilities beyond what was, at least publicly, assumed by USA intelligence about Iranian threats. Where will this end? KJ Noh shared his assessment of the Iran/Gulf/West Asia war but rightly said it is too early in the conflict to answer that question.

We ended the conversation with hopes of a more cooperative world that may emerge after this conflict and further weakening of the USA empire’s hold over its allies and rivals. It was in that context, and with reference to all the apocalyptic thinking that has infected USA-affiliated elites, that KJ said

“We don’t want the world to end - not with a bang, not with a whimper.”

You can watch the interview here on Substack and on my YouTube channel. No ads here on Substack, of course! But do me a favour and head over to the YouTube channel and watch there and give it a like. My latest video seemed heavily suppressed by the algorithm - so some positive messages to our technological masters would really help me out!

-   how the USA is functioning as an integrated empire, state and a society

-   the 'opportunity for decolonisation' to be completed as USA power and authority wanes

-   how Japan is trapped by its security dependence on the USA and, in KJ’s views, the compromised legacy of the post-colonial, de facto one-party state political system in Japan

-   how a 'middle power' like South Korea is responding to that opportunity under post-2025 President Lee Jae Myung's leadership?

-   how China and supporters of UN system are responding to the problems created by the USA going rogue

We also discussed the legacy of USA neo-colonial rule over South Korea since 1945, not just the grand geo-political effects, but its impact on Korean society and culture. We briefly discussed the international child adoption scandal that came to prominence last year and which will be subjected to a more searching Truth and Reconciliation commission process. I have discussed this sensitive issue and Korean history, society, culture and politics with KJ previously in interviews with KJ on my YouTube channel, shown below.

KJ has also recently co-authored a book, referred to during the interview, KILLING DEMOCRACY: Western Imperialism’s Legacy of Regime Change and Media Manipulation (co-authors: Finian Cunningham, Daniel Kovalik, Jeremy Kuzmarov, KJ Noh, Ron Ridenour).

If you would like to support KJ’s voice for peace, please consider buying his book.

Korea Crisis: Deep causes of the real crisis of Korea and US power | Interview with KJ Noh

Korean International Adoption Scandal | How did it happen? | KJ Noh Interview

South Korea chooses PEACE and SOVEREIGNTY over US Dominance | KJ Noh on Korea's pivotal election

Listen to historian and author, Jeff Rich jeffrich.substack.com read his histories of the changing world - not just the politics of the Western world, but the cultures, societies, and literature of the whole world. On the Burning Archive substack, Jeff Rich reads, in his unique voice, deep dives, essays, & slow reads every week. They help you to make sense of a puzzling world. Paid subscribers get bonus guides and monthly long reads. Founders/Angels receive the exclusive Civilizations in History & Nature program.

Summer of Fire and Blood: the German Peasants’ War

The World has a Three Body Problem | Anna Chen

Civilizations in History. . . and Nature. Module Two

Emmanuel Todd: "Iran is Last Western War against the World" Live with Jeff Rich and Ali Mirza

Korea Crisis: Deep causes of the real crisis of Korea and US power

What is the crisis in South Korea? What is the Korean perspective on the crisis and how does it differ from international reactions?

What are its causes - in Korean history, society, and its international relations, especially with its close ally the USA?

When South Korea declared martial law on 3 December many people in Korea were dismayed and many outside observers around the world were surprised.

But KJ Noh predicted that martial law was coming - 12 hours before the declaration.

KJ Noh joined me for an insightful discussion of the Korea crisis, its causes, the history of Korea since 1945, and how the crisis might unfold as the USA’s grip on world leadership weakens.

I am bringing this special interview as a video to my Substack readers outside my normal publishing schedule because of the importance and urgency of many of the issues KJ Noh discusses. You can view it at the Burning Archive YouTube channel.

Thanks for reading Burning Archive! This post is public so feel free to share it.

KJ Noh appears on the China Report at Breakthrough News YouTube channel (The China Report)

KJ Noh “South Korea's Martial Law fiasco: Continuing Legitimation Crisis in the Imperial Vassal State” Korea Policy Institute/ Counterpunch https://www.kpolicy.org/post/south-ko...

KJ Noh, “The Semiotics of Face slashing” Counterpunch - a quick rundown on Korean history and culture in three acts https://www.counterpunch.org/2015/03/...

KJ Noh’s prediction of coming martial law declaration appeared in this video (approx 1:20:00) What Does the Trump Presidency Mean f...

KJ Noh, US-backed Yoon Pledges to eliminate anti-state elements/Koreans rise up in resistance. Pearls & Irritations https://johnmenadue.com/martial-law-u...

In the interview KJ mentioned a young bar girl who addressed the crowd at an impeachment rally in Busan, and said "I marshalled all the courage I have to speak before you....I want to state that once we get past this crisis, we can't stop." The video is here: 부산 집회를 숙연하게 만든 화제의 3분 명연설 (자막있음) l 영상...

KJ also discussed the lyrics the SNSD/Girls Generation song "Into the new world". The lyrics in Korean and English are below.

특별한 기적을 기다리지마 Don't wait for any special miracle

눈 앞에선 우리의 거친 길은 A rough road ahead us waits

알 수 없는 미래와 벽 Only an unknown future and obstacles

바꾸지 않아, 포기할 수 없어 But we can't give up or exchange.

변치 않을 사랑으로 지켜줘 Just keep your unwavering love

상처 입은 내 맘까지 Even though your broken heart hurts

시선 속에서 말은 필요 없어 In our gaze, no words are necessary

멈춰져 버린 이 시간 In this moment of stopped time.

사랑해 널 이 느낌 이대로 Holding onto this feeling of loving you

그려왔던 헤매임의 끝 Is the end of our yearned-for wanderings:

이 세상 속에서 반복되는 슬픔 이젠 안녕 Farewell to the repetition of sorrows in this world.

Learn from history to live in tune with a changing world
